---
title: R3 2019
page_title: R3 2019 Release Overview 
description: "Learn more about the changes introduced in the R3 2019 Telerik Reporting release, as well as the required dependencies to use each product."
slug: telerikreporting/upgrade/2019/r3-2019
tags: r3,2019
published: True
position: 4
previous_url: /upgrade-path-2019-r3
---

# Changes in the R3 2019 Release

This article explains the manual changes required when upgrading to Telerik Reporting R3 2019 (13.2.19.918).

## Changes

### API Changes

### Reporting

* Telerik.Reporting.GraphSeriesBase.ToolTip property is now of type Telerik.Reporting.ToolTip instead of Telerik.Reporting.IToolTip 

* Telerik.Reporting.ReportItemBase.ToolTip property is now of type Telerik.Reporting.ToolTip instead of Telerik.Reporting.IToolTip 

* Telerik.Reporting.Report.ExternalStyleSheets property is now of type Telerik.Reporting.Drawing.ExternalStyleSheetCollection instead of ICollection\<Telerik.Reporting.Drawing.ExternalStyleSheet\>

* Interface Telerik.Reporting.IToolTip is now internal 

* The source code now is using the latest C# features. Thus requires the Roslyn compiler (VS 2017 or newer) in order to target .NET 4.0. The prebuild assemblies provided with the installation still target .NET 4.0. 

### WPF Report Viewer

The viewer depends on Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2019.3.917.40__. If you are using a newer version, consider adding binding redirects. For more information see: [How to Add report viewer to a WPF .NET Framework project]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/wpf-application/how-to-add-report-viewer-to-a-wpf-.net-framework-project%}).

### Silverlight Report Viewer

The viewer depends on Telerik UI Controls for Silverlight __2019.3.917.1050__. 

## Dependencies

### HTML5 Report Viewer Dependencies

The [HTML5 Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/html5-report-viewer/overview%}) depends on the following libraries: 

* Telerik Kendo UI (__2015.3.1111__ or later) 

* jQuery (__1.9.1__ or later) 

* Browser's native support for promises. When the browser does not support promises, the viewer automatically loads a promise polyfill from [Polyfill.io](https://polyfill.io) unless the polyfill is already loaded in the application. 

### Angular Report Viewer Dependencies

 The [Angular Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/angular-report-viewer-overview%}) depends on the following:  

* Angular (__4.0.0__ or later) 

* jQuery (__3.2.1__) 

### REST Service Redis Storage Dependencies

The [REST Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/overview%}) with [Redis Storage implementation]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-service-storage/how-to-use-redis-storage%}) depends on one of the following: 

* StackExchange.Redis.StrongName version 1.0.320 or greater for projects targeting .NET Framework 4. 

* StackExchange.Redis version 2.0.601 or greater for projects targeting .NET Framework 4.6.1+ or .NET Core. 

### HttpClient Dependencies

Connecting a desktop report viewer (WinForms or WPF) to a REST service or Report Server instance requires the following NuGet packages: 

* Newtonsoft.Json (__9.0.1__ or later) 

* Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.Client (__4.0.30506__ or later) 

### WebServiceDataSource Dependencies

The [Overview]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/webservicedatasource-component/overview%}) requires the following NuGet packages: 

* Microsoft.Net.Http (__2.0.20710__ or later) 

* Newtonsoft.Json (__9.0.1__ or later) 

### ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service Dependencies

The [ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-api-reference/overview%}) requires the following NuGet packages: 

* Microsoft ASP.NET Web API (__4.0.20710.0__ or later) 

* Newtonsoft.Json (__9.0.1__ or later) 

### ServiceStack Report Service Dependencies

The [ServiceStack Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/servicestack-implementation/how-to-add-telerik-reporting-rest-servicestack-to-web-application%}) uses ServiceStack (__3.9.70.0__): 

### CubeDataSource Dependencies

If you are using [CubeDataSource]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/cubedatasource-component/overview%}), the version of your Microsoft.AnalysisServices.AdomdClient should be __10.0.0.0__ or later. 

### Database Cache Provider Dependencies

If you are using [Database Cache Provider]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/cache-management/other-reportviewer-controls/configuring-the-database-cache-provider%}), the version of your Telerik Data Access ORM should be __2015.1.225.1__ or later. 

### Internal Cache

The internal cache uses SQLite version __3.26.0__. 
