report-items/htmltextbox/get-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started with the HtmlTextBox Report Item
description: "Get up and running with Telerik Reporting, and learn how to create, style, edit and preview the HtmlTextBox item in reports opened in the Report Designer."
slug: htmltextbox_item_get_started
tags: telerik, reporting, report, items, htmltextbox, getting, started, designer
published: True
position: 1
reportingArea: General
---

# Getting Started with the HtmlTextBox

This guide shows how to create and use the Telerik Reporting HtmlTextBox report item in reports with the [Standalone Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/overview%}).

- First, you will add an HtmlTextBox item in an empty Report created with the Standalone Designer.
- Then, you will fill the HtmlTextBox with some styled content.

After the completion of this guide, you will also be able to configure the HtmlTextBox in the Standalone Designer and achieve the following result:

![HtmlTextBox with link to Telerik Reporting online demos previewed in the Standalone Report Designer](images/HtmlTextBox-Preview.png)

## Adding the HtmlTextBox

1. Select the [Report Section]({%slug report_structure_groups_sections%}#report-sections) where you want to add the HtmlTextBox. For the purposes of this guide, you will choose the `Detail` section.

1. From the **Designer** menu, select the `Insert` tab. As a result, the available items will be displayed in the toolbar below the main menu.

1. Click the **HTML Text Box** item to add it in the middle of the Report section you selected in the first step.

The following image shows the result:

![Add the HtmlTextBox to the Detail section of an empty Report in the Standalone Report Designer](images/HtmlTextBox-Add.png)

## Adding Some Styled Content

The HtmlTextBox you have just created contains the default text that is the item name. When this HtmTextBox is the first HtmlTextBox you add to your report, its default value will be **htmlTextBox1**.

Now, you'll add some styled content to your HtmlTextBox report item:

1. Change the HtmlTextBox content by either of the following ways:

   - Go to the property `Value` of the item in the **Properties** pane and click the ellipses.

   - Right-click the item and select `Expression...` form the popped-up context menu.

   As a result, the **Edit Expression** dialog of the HtmTextBox will open in the **Design** view.

1. In the **Design** view of the editor, type **Telerik Reporting**.

1. Select the text and use the background color button from the toolbox to set an orange background.

1. Use the last button from the toolbar of the editor to add a link to the Telerik Reporting online demos. As a result, a **Hyperlink Editor** will open and you can now type **https://demos.telerik.com/reporting/** as a **URL**, and select **\_blank** as **Target** to open the web page on a new browser tab like shown in the following image:

   ![Add styled content with hyperlink to the HtmlTextBox with the Expression editor of the Report Designer](images/HtmlTextBox-ContentWithLink.png)

1. Switch to the **Html** view of the editor to see the generated HTML code. The code will look like he following:

   ```HTML
   <span style="background-color: #ff8000"><a href="https://demos.telerik.com/reporting/">Telerik Reporting</a></span>
   ```

1. Click **OK** to close the HtmlTextBox editor dialog.

1. Preview the report and test the link by clicking the **Telerik Reporting** orange text.

## Next Steps

- [HtmlTextBox Class API Reference](/api/telerik.reporting.htmltextbox)
- [Demo Page for Telerik Reporting](https://demos.telerik.com/reporting)
- [Knowledge Base Section](/knowledge-base)

## See Also

- [Editing]({%slug htmltextbox_editing%})
- [Styling and Formatting]({%slug htmltextbox_formatting_and_styling%})
- [Embedded Expressions]({%slug htmltextbox_embedded_expressions%})
- [Known Limitations]({%slug htmltextbox_known_limitations%})

Commit message:

docs: update articles to address img support in htmltextbox

report-items/htmltextbox/get-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started with the HtmlTextBox Report Item
description: "Get up and running with Telerik Reporting, and learn how to create, style, edit and preview the HtmlTextBox item in reports opened in the Report Designer."
slug: htmltextbox_item_get_started
tags: telerik, reporting, report, items, htmltextbox, getting, started, designer
published: True
position: 1
reportingArea: General
---

# Getting Started with the HtmlTextBox

This guide shows how to create and use the Telerik Reporting HtmlTextBox report item in reports with the [Standalone Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/overview%}).

- First, you will add an HtmlTextBox item in an empty Report created with the Standalone Designer.
- Then, you will fill the HtmlTextBox with some styled content.
- Finally, you will add an image to the HtmlTextBox.

After the completion of this guide, you will also be able to configure the HtmlTextBox in the Standalone Designer and achieve the following result:

![HtmlTextBox with link to Telerik Reporting online demos previewed in the Standalone Report Designer](images/HtmlTextBox-Preview.png)

## Adding the HtmlTextBox

1. Select the [Report Section]({%slug report_structure_groups_sections%}#report-sections) where you want to add the HtmlTextBox. For the purposes of this guide, you will choose the `Detail` section.

1. From the **Designer** menu, select the `Insert` tab. As a result, the available items will be displayed in the toolbar below the main menu.

1. Click the **HTML Text Box** item to add it in the middle of the Report section you selected in the first step.

The following image shows the result:

![Add the HtmlTextBox to the Detail section of an empty Report in the Standalone Report Designer](images/HtmlTextBox-Add.png)

## Adding Some Styled Content

The HtmlTextBox you have just created contains the default text that is the item name. When this HtmlTextBox is the first HtmlTextBox you add to your report, its default value will be **htmlTextBox1**.

Now, you will add some styled content to your HtmlTextBox report item:

1. Change the HtmlTextBox content by either of the following ways:

   - Go to the property `Value` of the item in the **Properties** pane and click the ellipses.

   - Right-click the item and select `Expression...` from the popped-up context menu.

   As a result, the **Edit Expression** dialog of the HtmlTextBox will open in the **Design** view.

1. In the **Design** view of the editor, type **Telerik Reporting**.

1. Select the text and use the background color button from the toolbox to set an orange background.

1. Use the last button from the toolbar of the editor to add a link to the Telerik Reporting online demos. As a result, a **Hyperlink Editor** will open and you can now type **https://demos.telerik.com/reporting/** as a **URL**, and select **\_blank** as **Target** to open the web page on a new browser tab like shown in the following image:

   ![Add styled content with hyperlink to the HtmlTextBox with the Expression editor of the Report Designer](images/HtmlTextBox-ContentWithLink.png)

1. Switch to the **Html** view of the editor to see the generated HTML code. The code will look like the following:

   ```HTML
   <span style="background-color: #ff8000"><a href="https://demos.telerik.com/reporting/">Telerik Reporting</a></span>
   ```

1. Click **OK** to close the HtmlTextBox editor dialog.

1. Preview the report and test the link by clicking the **Telerik Reporting** orange text.

## Adding an Image

You can also embed images in the HtmlTextBox using the `<img>` tag. To add an image:

1. Right-click the HtmlTextBox and select `Expression...` to open the editor.

1. Switch to the **Html** view.

1. Add an image tag to your content. For example, you can modify the existing HTML to include an image:

   ```html
   <span style="background-color: #ff8040"><a href="https://demos.telerik.com/reporting/">Telerik Reporting</a></span>
   <div><img style="margin: 10px auto; display: block" alt="Telerik Reporting Support Logo" src="https://demos.telerik.com/reporting/images/reporting-icons/reporting-icons_support-recources.png" width="100" height="100"/></div>
   ```

1. Click **OK** and preview the report to see the image displayed under the text.

![Preview mode of the Standalone Report Designer where a hypertext and an image are visible.](images/HtmlTextBox-ContentWithImage.png)

>tip For more information about image support including supported attributes and CSS styling options, see [Image Support]({%slug htmltextbox_formatting_and_styling%}#image-support).

## Next Steps

- [HtmlTextBox Class API Reference](/api/telerik.reporting.htmltextbox)
- [Demo Page for Telerik Reporting](https://demos.telerik.com/reporting)
- [Knowledge Base Section](/knowledge-base)

## See Also

- [Editing]({%slug htmltextbox_editing%})
- [Styling and Formatting]({%slug htmltextbox_formatting_and_styling%})
- [Embedded Expressions]({%slug htmltextbox_embedded_expressions%})
- [Known Limitations]({%slug htmltextbox_known_limitations%})
