embedding-reports/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Integrating the Native Angular Report Viewer
description: "Learn about the requirements of the Native Angular Report Viewer, what module loaders can be used, and what are the supported browsers."
slug: telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/overview
tags: angular,native,report,viewer,overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Overview

The Native Angular Report Viewer is a native Angular component built with [Kendo UI for Angular](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui) components. It was introduced with [Telerik Reporting R3 2023](https://www.telerik.com/support/whats-new/reporting/release-history/progress-telerik-reporting-r3-2023-17-2-23-1010).

![The preview of the demo report 'Report Catalog' in the Native Angular Report Viewer in the Microsoft Edge browser](../images/NativeAngularReportViewer/angular-report-viewer-overview.png)

|Button or Input|Action
|:---|:---
|__Navigate back in history__|Navigates to a previous report after the **Navigate to report** interactive action was triggered. 
|__Navigate forward in history__|Navigates to a forward report after the **Navigate back** was used.
|__Stop__|Cancels the loading of the current report if the chosen parameters make it too heavy. 
|__Refresh__|Updates the current report with fresh data.
|__First page__|Displays the respective page of the current report.
|__Previous page__|Displays the respective page of the current report.
|__Current page__|Input allows tracking the number of the displayed page and also displaying a particular page by entering its number.
|__Total pages__|Shows the number of pages of the current report.
|__Next page__|Displays the respective page of the current report.
|__Last page__|Displays the respective page of the current report.
|__Switch the View mode__|Switches the report view between the __Logical__ and __Physical__. __Logical__ provides a convenient on-screen preview experience. __Physical__ provides an exact preview of the eventual print operation.
|__Export__|Initiates an export operation. For more information, refer to the article on [export formats]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/export-formats%}). 
|__Print__|Initiates printing of the current report.
|__Send Email__|Displays the Send Email dialog.
|__Show/Hide document map__|Allows the user to hide the document map tree if map nodes were defined in the report.
|__Show/Hide parameters area__|Allows the user to hide the report parameter inputs if any.
|__Zoom In__|Allows the user to increase the zoom level of the report content.
|__Zoom Out__|Allows the user to decrease the zoom level of the report content.
|__Switch the Scale mode__|Switches the report view scale mode between fitting the report to the entire page view port or to the viewer's view port.
|__Search__|Allows searching in the report content.

## Demo

A complete example with the native Angular Report Viewer can be found in the installation folder of Telerik Reporting: `C:\Program Files (x86)\Progress\Telerik Reporting {{site.suiteversion}}\Examples\Angular\native-angular-report-viewer-example`.

## See Also

* [How to Use the Native Angular Report Viewer with Reporting Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/how-to-use-with-reporting-service%})
* [How to Use the Native Angular Report Viewer with Report Server]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/how-to-use-with-report-server%})
* [Native Angular Report Viewer Requirements]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/requirements%})
* [Native Angular Report Viewer Options]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/api-reference/options%})
* [Native Angular Report Viewer Commands]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/api-reference/commands%})
* [Native Angular Report Viewer Events]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/api-reference/events%})

Commit message:

Spa version (#1175)
* remove snippets under source tags

removed default static snippets under source-code tags that would be extracted during build

* Update redirect.config

.html removed from api ref redirects

* Update web.config

add redirect for .html

* previous_url added

* exclude WCF and Silverlight folders from the sitemap

* Hide Silverlight KBs from sitemap

And include message for obsoleting the Silverlight viewer

* Update design-considerations.md

* Introduce spaviewerversion

Replace angularviewerversion and reactviewerversion with spaviewerversion

* add node and telerik angular version tokens

* Update overview.md

embedding-reports/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Integrating the Native Angular Report Viewer
description: "Learn about the requirements of the Native Angular Report Viewer, what module loaders can be used, and what are the supported browsers."
slug: telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/overview
tags: angular,native,report,viewer,overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Native Angular Report Viewer Overview

> The current Native Angular Report Viewer version is `{{site.spaviewerversion}}` and should be used with `Reporting REST Service {{site.buildversion}}` or `Telerik Report Server {{site.reportserverversion}}`.
> 
The Native Angular Report Viewer is a native Angular component built with [Kendo UI for Angular](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui) components. It was introduced with [Telerik Reporting R3 2023](https://www.telerik.com/support/whats-new/reporting/release-history/progress-telerik-reporting-r3-2023-17-2-23-1010).

![The preview of the demo report 'Report Catalog' in the Native Angular Report Viewer in the Microsoft Edge browser](../images/NativeAngularReportViewer/angular-report-viewer-overview.png)

|Button or Input|Action
|:---|:---
|__Navigate back in history__|Navigates to a previous report after the **Navigate to report** interactive action was triggered. 
|__Navigate forward in history__|Navigates to a forward report after the **Navigate back** was used.
|__Stop__|Cancels the loading of the current report if the chosen parameters make it too heavy. 
|__Refresh__|Updates the current report with fresh data.
|__First page__|Displays the respective page of the current report.
|__Previous page__|Displays the respective page of the current report.
|__Current page__|Input allows tracking the number of the displayed page and also displaying a particular page by entering its number.
|__Total pages__|Shows the number of pages of the current report.
|__Next page__|Displays the respective page of the current report.
|__Last page__|Displays the respective page of the current report.
|__Switch the View mode__|Switches the report view between the __Logical__ and __Physical__. __Logical__ provides a convenient on-screen preview experience. __Physical__ provides an exact preview of the eventual print operation.
|__Export__|Initiates an export operation. For more information, refer to the article on [export formats]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/export-formats%}). 
|__Print__|Initiates printing of the current report.
|__Send Email__|Displays the Send Email dialog.
|__Show/Hide document map__|Allows the user to hide the document map tree if map nodes were defined in the report.
|__Show/Hide parameters area__|Allows the user to hide the report parameter inputs if any.
|__Zoom In__|Allows the user to increase the zoom level of the report content.
|__Zoom Out__|Allows the user to decrease the zoom level of the report content.
|__Switch the Scale mode__|Switches the report view scale mode between fitting the report to the entire page view port or to the viewer's view port.
|__Search__|Allows searching in the report content.

## Demo

A complete example with the native Angular Report Viewer can be found in the installation folder of Telerik Reporting: `C:\Program Files (x86)\Progress\Telerik Reporting {{site.suiteversion}}\Examples\Angular\native-angular-report-viewer-example`.

## See Also

* [How to Use the Native Angular Report Viewer with Reporting Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/how-to-use-with-reporting-service%})
* [How to Use the Native Angular Report Viewer with Report Server]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/how-to-use-with-report-server%})
* [Native Angular Report Viewer Requirements]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/requirements%})
* [Native Angular Report Viewer Options]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/api-reference/options%})
* [Native Angular Report Viewer Commands]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/api-reference/commands%})
* [Native Angular Report Viewer Events]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/api-reference/events%})
