embedding-reports/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/requirements.md, before:

---
title: Requirements
page_title: Requirements and Browser Support
description: "Learn about the requirements of the Native Angular Report Viewer dependencies - NodeJS, Angular and Kendo UI for Angular, plus the list of supported browsers."
slug: telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/requirements
tags: angular,native,report,viewer,requirements
published: True
position: 1
---

<style>
table th:first-of-type {
	width: 10%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(2) {
	width: 10%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(3) {
	width: 20%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(4) {
	width: 20%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(5) {
	width: 20%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(6) {
	width: 20%;
}
</style>

# System Requirements

This article states the system requirements you need to work with the Native Angular Report Viewer.

## Operating Systems

The Native Angular Report Viewer is OS agnostic.

## Node.js

The required [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) version is {{site.nodeversion}} or later. Alongside the Node.js installation, a supported [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) version will be installed.

To check your Node.js version, run `node --version` in a terminal or console window.

## Angular

The Native Angular Report Viewer is built with the [Kendo UI for Angular](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui) suite and as such, the Angular versions that it can be used on depend on the supported versions of said components - [Kendo UI for Angular Supported Versions](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui/components/installation/requirements/#toc-angular)

## Kendo UI for Angular

The Native Angular Report Viewer is built using the [Kendo UI for Angular](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui) component library and thus using the viewer requires a license for said product - [Buy Kendo UI](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/kendo-ui).

The Native Angular Report Viewer is built with version [{{site.angularsubsetversion}}](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui/components/changelogs/kendo-angular-ui/#v{{site.angularsubsetversion}}) of [Kendo UI for Angular](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui) and will not support older versions.

## Browser Support

<table style="width:100%">
	<tr>
		<th>Chrome</th>
		<th>Firefox</th>
		<th>Edge</th>
		<th>Safari</th>
		<th>iOS</th>
		<th>Android</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>latest</td>
		<td>latest</td>
		<td>2 most recent major versions</td>
		<td>2 most recent major versions</td>
		<td>2 most recent major versions</td>
		<td>2 most recent major versions</td>
	</tr>
</table>

Tha Native Angular Report Viewer supports the major browsers just as Angular does. For more details, refer to the [Browser Support](https://angular.io/guide/browser-support) article in the official Angular documentation.

Commit message:

2024 q3 (#1461)
* Create 2024-q3.md

- updated Promise polyfill info!

* Update _config.yml

* update docs for angular 18 support

* specify minimum required version of angular for narv

* update WPF version in 2024-q3

- updated WPF assemblies version to 2024.3.806.xx

* Update how-to-import-reports-created-with-the-vs-report-designer.md (#1460)

* Update how-to-import-reports-created-with-the-vs-report-designer.md

* Update how-to-import-reports-created-with-the-vs-report-designer.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Ivan Hristov <ivan.hristov@progress.com>

* Update 2024-q3.md

* Update how-to-import-reports-created-with-the-vs-report-designer.md

* Update how-to-use-with-standalone-components.md

* docs: upgrade path fixes

- culture globalization section
- fixed Microsoft.Net.Http version to 2.2.29 in 3 upgrade path articles.

---------

Co-authored-by: Todor Arabadzhiev <todor.arabadzhiev@progress.com>
Co-authored-by: Dimitar Nikolov <dimitarnikolovv06@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Momchil Zanev <108741271+mzanev@users.noreply.github.com>

embedding-reports/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/requirements.md, after:

---
title: Requirements
page_title: Requirements and Browser Support
description: "Learn about the requirements of the Native Angular Report Viewer dependencies - NodeJS, Angular and Kendo UI for Angular, plus the list of supported browsers."
slug: telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-angular-report-viewer/requirements
tags: angular,native,report,viewer,requirements
published: True
position: 1
---

<style>
table th:first-of-type {
	width: 10%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(2) {
	width: 10%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(3) {
	width: 20%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(4) {
	width: 20%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(5) {
	width: 20%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(6) {
	width: 20%;
}
</style>

# System Requirements

This article states the system requirements you need to work with the Native Angular Report Viewer.

## Operating Systems

The Native Angular Report Viewer is OS agnostic.

## Node.js

The required [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) version is {{site.nodeversion}} or later. Alongside the Node.js installation, a supported [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) version will be installed.

To check your Node.js version, run `node --version` in a terminal or console window.

## Angular

The Native Angular Report Viewer is built with the [Kendo UI for Angular](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui) suite and as such, the Angular versions that it can be used on depend on the supported versions of said components - [Kendo UI for Angular Supported Versions](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui/components/installation/requirements/#toc-angular).

The currently used version of [Kendo UI for Angular](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui) is v[{{site.angularsubsetversion}}](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui/components/changelogs/kendo-angular-ui/#v{{site.angularsubsetversion}}) and it requires **Angular 15 or newer**.

## Kendo UI for Angular

The Native Angular Report Viewer is built using the [Kendo UI for Angular](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui) component library and thus using the viewer requires a license for said product - [Buy Kendo UI](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/kendo-ui).

The Native Angular Report Viewer is built with version [{{site.angularsubsetversion}}](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui/components/changelogs/kendo-angular-ui/#v{{site.angularsubsetversion}}) of [Kendo UI for Angular](https://www.telerik.com/kendo-angular-ui) and will not support older versions.

## Browser Support

<table style="width:100%">
	<tr>
		<th>Chrome</th>
		<th>Firefox</th>
		<th>Edge</th>
		<th>Safari</th>
		<th>iOS</th>
		<th>Android</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>latest</td>
		<td>latest</td>
		<td>2 most recent major versions</td>
		<td>2 most recent major versions</td>
		<td>2 most recent major versions</td>
		<td>2 most recent major versions</td>
	</tr>
</table>

Tha Native Angular Report Viewer supports the major browsers just as Angular does. For more details, refer to the [Browser Support](https://angular.dev/reference/versions#browser-support) article in the official Angular documentation.
