embedding-reports/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/how-to-use-angular-report-viewer-with-report-server.md, before:

---
title: Integration with Telerik Report Server
page_title: Using Angular Report Viewer with Telerik Report Server
description: "Learn how the Angular Report Viewer can be used as an external viewer to display reports located and rendered on a Telerik Report Server."
slug: telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/how-to-use-angular-report-viewer-with-report-server
tags: how,to,use,angular,report,viewer,with,report,server
published: True
position: 3
previous_url: /angular-report-viewer-with-report-server
---

# Integrating the Angular Report Viewer with Report Server

This tutorial demonstrates how to add the Angular Report Viewer component to a new Angular application and display a report coming from the Telerik Report Server.

## Prerequisites

The following list describes the prerequisites for this tutorial:

* Review the Angular Report Viewer [Requirements]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/angular-report-viewer-overview%}#requirements).
* [Angular CLI](https://angular.io/cli).
* A running intance of the [Telerik Report Server](https://docs.telerik.com/report-server/introduction).

## Using Angular Report Viewer in Angular application

> All paths and url links in the described steps must be adapted according to your project setup.

###Steps:

1. Create new Angular application using the [Angular CLI](https://angular.io/cli) tutorial.
1. Install [jQuery](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jquery) by using the following command:

	````powershell
npm install jquery
````


1. Add a reference to jQuery in the scripts array of the `angular-cli.json` (as of Angular 6 the file is renamed to `angular.json`):

	````TypeScript
"scripts": ["../node_modules/jquery/dist/jquery.js"]
````


1. Install the Telerik Angular Report Viewer NPM package by running:

	````powershell
npm install @progress/telerik-angular-report-viewer
````

	>If you receive a *403 Forbidden Error*, you need to register and login at [npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/) before performing this step.
	>
	>````powershell
npm login --registry=https://registry.npmjs.org --scope=@progress
````


1. Once installed, import the TelerikReportingModule in [your application root module](https://angular.io/guide/ngmodules#!#angular-modularity) :

	````TypeScript
import { TelerikReportingModule } from '@progress/telerik-angular-report-viewer';
	...
	imports: [TelerikReportingModule]
````


1. Add the desired report viewer container style using a property of the AppComponent class:

	````TypeScript
export class AppComponent {
		viewerContainerStyle = {
			position: 'relative',
			width: '1000px',
			height: '800px',
			['font-family']: 'ms sans serif'
		};
	}
````


1. Use the report viewer selector in the AppComponent template:

	````HTML
<tr-viewer
		[containerStyle]="viewerContainerStyle"
		[reportServer]="{
			url: 'http://localhost:83/',
			username: 'myusername',
			password: 'mypass'
		}"
		[reportSource]="{
			report: 'Samples/Dashboard',
			parameters: {}
		}" 
		[viewMode]="'INTERACTIVE'"
		[scaleMode]="'SPECIFIC'"
		[scale]="1.0">
	</tr-viewer>
````

	For all available report viewer options refer to [Options]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/api-reference/options%}).

1. Style the viewer using the desired Kendo UI theme (еither using [Less-Based Themes](https://docs.telerik.com/kendo-ui/styles-and-layout/less-themes/overview) or [Sass-Based Themes](https://docs.telerik.com/kendo-ui/styles-and-layout/sass-themes/overview)): Add references to the Less-based CSS files in the `<head>` element of index.html:

	````HTML
<!-- The required Less-based styles -->
	<link href="https://kendo.cdn.telerik.com/{{kendosubsetversion}}/styles/kendo.common.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
	<link href="https://kendo.cdn.telerik.com/{{kendosubsetversion}}/styles/kendo.blueopal.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
````

	>To get the Sass-based Kendo UI themes, you can use either the pre-build CSS files or the NPM packages ([Getting the Sass-Based Themes](http://docs.telerik.com/kendo-ui/styles-and-layout/sass-themes#getting-the-themes)). 
	If you use the __styleUrls__ attribute to reference the CSS, it is required to set the view encapsulation to __None__:

	````TypeScript
import { Component, ViewEncapsulation } from '@angular/core';
	@Component({
		encapsulation: ViewEncapsulation.None
````


1. Run the application:

	````powershell
ng serve
````


## See Also

* [Telerik Report Server](https://docs.telerik.com/report-server/introduction)
* [Angular CLI](https://angular.io/cli)
* [Angular Report Viewer Options]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/api-reference/options%})
* [Angular Report Viewer Requirements]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/angular-report-viewer-overview%}#requirements)

Commit message:

Update Angular tutorials to use the current node_modules path (#1042)
* Update how-to-use-angular-report-viewer-with-angular-cli.md

* Update how-to-use-angular-report-viewer-with-report-server.md

embedding-reports/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/how-to-use-angular-report-viewer-with-report-server.md, after:

---
title: Integration with Telerik Report Server
page_title: Using Angular Report Viewer with Telerik Report Server
description: "Learn how the Angular Report Viewer can be used as an external viewer to display reports located and rendered on a Telerik Report Server."
slug: telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/how-to-use-angular-report-viewer-with-report-server
tags: how,to,use,angular,report,viewer,with,report,server
published: True
position: 3
previous_url: /angular-report-viewer-with-report-server
---

# Integrating the Angular Report Viewer with Report Server

This tutorial demonstrates how to add the Angular Report Viewer component to a new Angular application and display a report coming from the Telerik Report Server.

## Prerequisites

The following list describes the prerequisites for this tutorial:

* Review the Angular Report Viewer [Requirements]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/angular-report-viewer-overview%}#requirements).
* [Angular CLI](https://angular.io/cli).
* A running intance of the [Telerik Report Server](https://docs.telerik.com/report-server/introduction).

## Using Angular Report Viewer in Angular application

> All paths and url links in the described steps must be adapted according to your project setup.

###Steps:

1. Create new Angular application using the [Angular CLI](https://angular.io/cli) tutorial.
1. Install [jQuery](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jquery) by using the following command:

	````powershell
npm install jquery
````


1. Add a reference to jQuery in the scripts array of the `angular-cli.json` (as of Angular 6 the file is renamed to `angular.json`):

	````TypeScript
"scripts": ["./node_modules/jquery/dist/jquery.js"]
````
>note If your `node_modules` folder is not in the same directory as the `angular.json` file, adjust this path to that alternate location.

1. Install the Telerik Angular Report Viewer NPM package by running:

	````powershell
npm install @progress/telerik-angular-report-viewer
````

	>If you receive a *403 Forbidden Error*, you need to register and login at [npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/) before performing this step.
	>
	>````powershell
npm login --registry=https://registry.npmjs.org --scope=@progress
````


1. Once installed, import the TelerikReportingModule in [your application root module](https://angular.io/guide/ngmodules#!#angular-modularity) :

	````TypeScript
import { TelerikReportingModule } from '@progress/telerik-angular-report-viewer';
	...
	imports: [TelerikReportingModule]
````


1. Add the desired report viewer container style using a property of the AppComponent class:

	````TypeScript
export class AppComponent {
		viewerContainerStyle = {
			position: 'relative',
			width: '1000px',
			height: '800px',
			['font-family']: 'ms sans serif'
		};
	}
````


1. Use the report viewer selector in the AppComponent template:

	````HTML
<tr-viewer
		[containerStyle]="viewerContainerStyle"
		[reportServer]="{
			url: 'http://localhost:83/',
			username: 'myusername',
			password: 'mypass'
		}"
		[reportSource]="{
			report: 'Samples/Dashboard',
			parameters: {}
		}" 
		[viewMode]="'INTERACTIVE'"
		[scaleMode]="'SPECIFIC'"
		[scale]="1.0">
	</tr-viewer>
````

	For all available report viewer options refer to [Options]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/api-reference/options%}).

1. Style the viewer using the desired Kendo UI theme (еither using [Less-Based Themes](https://docs.telerik.com/kendo-ui/styles-and-layout/less-themes/overview) or [Sass-Based Themes](https://docs.telerik.com/kendo-ui/styles-and-layout/sass-themes/overview)): Add references to the Less-based CSS files in the `<head>` element of index.html:

	````HTML
<!-- The required Less-based styles -->
	<link href="https://kendo.cdn.telerik.com/{{kendosubsetversion}}/styles/kendo.common.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
	<link href="https://kendo.cdn.telerik.com/{{kendosubsetversion}}/styles/kendo.blueopal.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
````

	>To get the Sass-based Kendo UI themes, you can use either the pre-build CSS files or the NPM packages ([Getting the Sass-Based Themes](http://docs.telerik.com/kendo-ui/styles-and-layout/sass-themes#getting-the-themes)). 
	If you use the __styleUrls__ attribute to reference the CSS, it is required to set the view encapsulation to __None__:

	````TypeScript
import { Component, ViewEncapsulation } from '@angular/core';
	@Component({
		encapsulation: ViewEncapsulation.None
````


1. Run the application:

	````powershell
ng serve
````


## See Also

* [Telerik Report Server](https://docs.telerik.com/report-server/introduction)
* [Angular CLI](https://angular.io/cli)
* [Angular Report Viewer Options]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/api-reference/options%})
* [Angular Report Viewer Requirements]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/angular-report-viewer-overview%}#requirements)
