---
title: On Telerik Reporting
page_title: On Telerik Reporting
description: "Learn more about the concepts and logic behind Telerik Reporting."
slug: on-telerik-reporting
tags: telerik, reporting, basic, concepts, explanations, logic
published: True
position: 0
---

# On Telerik reporting 

Reports contain data. Report tools and functionalities help display that data in a visually structured and logically sorted way.

Telerik Reporting is an embedded tool for creating and displaying reports. Telerik reports can be created for [web or desktop applications](...) which [operate within various web and desktop frameworks](...).

Generally, you can use Telerik reporting in two main use cases. 

The first scenario is if you want to quickly import some data, display it in a report, and share it with someone by exporting the content in PDF, for example. In this case, you can only install the product and use one of the Telerik Report Designers. 

However, Telerik Reporting is a highly functional tool with integrated wizards and provides a great number of options for customizing your reports and presenting data in a beautiful, convenient, and easy-to-grasp manner. You can not only quickly import the data for presentation, but also use the Telerik Reporting item templates that are incorporated in Visual Studio. With them, you can develop various report structures, connect the reports to a multitude of data bases, and then use the Telerik Report Viewer of your choice to render the data.        

The process of creating reports requires you [to have Telerik Reporting installed](...) on your machine which is done through your Telerik account. 

The milestone during the report creation is the designing of the report, which happens in one of the [three available Telerik Report Designers](...)&mdash;the [Standalone Report Designer](...), the [Web Report Designer](...), or the integrated [Report Designer for Visual Studio](...). 

All three Telerik Report Designers provide options for creating the required report structure as a table with a title and a page header and footer; for connecting the report to data by retrieving and processing information from relational, multi-dimensional, ORM, or custom data-layer-based data sources; for adding custom controls to visualize the data such as a pie chart; for styling the report and its items by selecting colors from the incorporated color palette and other styling options.   

Define the structure of the report by selecting the item template 

Telerik Reporting can incorporate a new REST service end point or integrate a hosted report server.  

Built-in Telerik item templates

Report definitions contain a structure and configuration for creating a project. 

When creating a data source, Telerik Reporting provides the option for creating a shared connection or embedding its configuration in the report definition.   

Customize the Report with Data from Backend Services

1. Open the report definition that was generated by Telerik Reporting. As a result, the definition will be opened in the Telerik Standalone Report Designer, a design-time tool. The designer is a tool for creating and configuring reports. Use the tool to navigate the report structure to the report IE window. 

1. Delete the existing tools. From the toolbar, click **Crosstab** to start the built-in wizard. The crosstab is a container for data bound from an underlying data source. A powerful control in reports because it provides a range of functions like aggregates, summing, and so on. You'll use it to show sales per categories and sub-categories per year.

1. Configure the data source that will bind to the crosstab. Add a new data source - **Choose a Data Source** dialog, under **Data Sources** select **New Data Source**. In the **Create New Data Source** dialog, select let's bind to data located on the SQL server, the **Adventure** data base. 

Let's create a shared connection so that you can use it elsewhere. Then, configure the select statement that will pull data from the data base and bind the result set to the crosstab, that is, to pull out the available years from the sales orders table. **Execute a query** will display the distinct years found in the data base.

At this stage, Telerik Reporting will pull out the data from the underlying data source, and bind that data to the crosstab in the report definition. You need to specify the connection string in the web.config file. Teerik Reporting allows you to target multiple platforms but you need to ensure that you do the right thing in terms of setting configuration values.     
