designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/expressions-as-values-of-item-properties.md, before:

---
title: Expressions as Values
page_title: Using Expressions as Values of Item Properties 
description: "Learn how to use Expressions as Values of Item Properties, what are the specifics and how to proceed in particular scenarios."
slug: telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/expressions-as-values-of-item-properties
tags: expressions,as,values,of,item,properties
published: True
position: 1
previous_url: /expressions-property-values
---

# Expressions as Values of Item Properties

By default the report items’ properties are strongly typed. Anyway you can use expressions as value for some of them. To specify that the value of a property is an expression, the value should be a string starting with equal `=` sign. If the equal sign is not present the value will be interpreted as a string literal.

This expression:

`='Hi Mr.' + Fields.LastName + ', ' + Fields.FirstName + '!'`

when evaluated will result in:

`Hi Mr. Smith, John!`

If you want part of the expression to be put on another line you have to insert a new line character in a string literal. For example here is how the expresion should look in the [Expression Editor]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/tools/edit-expression-dialog%}):

````
='Hi Mr.' + Fields.LastName + ', ' + Fields.FirstName + '!

How are you today?'
````

The result would be:

````
Hi Mr. Smith, John!

How are you today?
````

On the design surface expressions are usually displayed surrounded by square brackets `[]`. For example, the expression `=Fields.PersonID` when used in `TextBox.Value` property would appear as `[=Fields.PersonID]`.

The following objects and properties support expressions as property values:

| Object | Property |
| ------ | ------ |
|Barcode|Value|
|CheckBox|Value<br/> TrueValue<br/> FalseValue<br/> IndeterminateValue<br/> Text|
|PictureBox|Value|
|Report|DocumentName|
|ReportBook|DocumentName|
|ReportParameter|Value|
|TextBox|Value|
|ReportItemBase (all items)|BookmarkID<br/> DocumentMapText|
|Group|BookmarkID<br/> DocumentMapText|
|TableGroup|BookmarkID<br/> DocumentMapText|
|CalculateField|Expression|
|Filter|ExpressionValue|
|Sorting|Expression|
|Grouping|Expression|
|ReportParameter|Value|
|ReportParameter.AvailableValues|ValueMember<br/> DisplayMember|
|Parameter|Valuе|

Commit message:

Added image ExpressionsAsValues  (#1569)
* Add files via upload

* Added photo for Expressions as Values

* Update expressions-as-values-of-item-properties.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Dimitar Nikolov <dnikolov@progress.com>

designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/expressions-as-values-of-item-properties.md, after:

---
title: Expressions as Values
page_title: Using Expressions as Values of Item Properties 
description: "Learn how to use Expressions as Values of Item Properties, what are the specifics and how to proceed in particular scenarios."
slug: telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/expressions-as-values-of-item-properties
tags: expressions,as,values,of,item,properties
published: True
position: 1
previous_url: /expressions-property-values
---

# Expressions as Values of Item Properties

By default the report items’ properties are strongly typed. Anyway you can use expressions as value for some of them. To specify that the value of a property is an expression, the value should be a string starting with equal `=` sign. If the equal sign is not present the value will be interpreted as a string literal.

This expression:

`='Hi Mr.' + Fields.LastName + ', ' + Fields.FirstName + '!'`

![Expressions as Values in the Edit Expressions dialog](images/ExpressionsAsValues.png)

when evaluated will result in:

`Hi Mr. Smith, John!`

If you want part of the expression to be put on another line you have to insert a new line character in a string literal. For example here is how the expresion should look in the [Expression Editor]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/tools/edit-expression-dialog%}):

````
='Hi Mr.' + Fields.LastName + ', ' + Fields.FirstName + '!

How are you today?'
````

The result would be:

````
Hi Mr. Smith, John!

How are you today?
````

On the design surface expressions are usually displayed surrounded by square brackets `[]`. For example, the expression `=Fields.PersonID` when used in `TextBox.Value` property would appear as `[=Fields.PersonID]`.

The following objects and properties support expressions as property values:

| Object | Property |
| ------ | ------ |
|Barcode|Value|
|CheckBox|Value<br/> TrueValue<br/> FalseValue<br/> IndeterminateValue<br/> Text|
|PictureBox|Value|
|Report|DocumentName|
|ReportBook|DocumentName|
|ReportParameter|Value|
|TextBox|Value|
|ReportItemBase (all items)|BookmarkID<br/> DocumentMapText|
|Group|BookmarkID<br/> DocumentMapText|
|TableGroup|BookmarkID<br/> DocumentMapText|
|CalculateField|Expression|
|Filter|ExpressionValue|
|Sorting|Expression|
|Grouping|Expression|
|ReportParameter|Value|
|ReportParameter.AvailableValues|ValueMember<br/> DisplayMember|
|Parameter|Valuе|
