---
title: 2026 Q1 (20.0.26.211)
page_title: 2026 Q1 20.0.26.211 Release Overview
description: "See the changes introduced with Telerik Reporting 2026 Q1 (20.0.26.211) that should be considered before upgrading, and the 3rd party products & packages this version depends on."
slug: telerikreporting/upgrade/2026/2026-Q1-20-0-26-211
tags: Q1,2026
published: True
shonly: True
position: 1
---

# 2026 Q1 (20.0.26.211) Changes and Dependencies

This article explains the manual changes required when upgrading to Telerik Reporting 2026 Q1 (20.0.26.211).

## Changes

### Report Viewers working with ASP.NET Core WebAPI REST Report Service

Connecting a report viewer to a REST service or Report Server instance in .NET projects now uses [System.Text.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Text.Json/10.0.2) for serialization and no longer depends on _Newtonsoft.Json_. Remove the _Newtonsoft.Json_ when upgrading from older Reporting projects, as explained in the article [JsonResult.SerializerSettings Must Be of Type Newtonsoft.Json.JsonSerializerSettings]({%slug jsonresult-serializersettings-must-be-an-instance-of-type-newtonsoftjson-jsonserializersettings%}).

### Telerik.Reporting.Services.HttpClient in .NET

Connecting a desktop report viewer (WinForms or WPF) to a REST service or Report Server instance for .NET now uses [System.Text.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Text.Json/10.0.2) for serialization and no longer depends on _Newtonsoft.Json_.

### The .NET implementation of the WebServiceDataSource Component

The WebServiceDataSource for .NET now uses [System.Text.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Text.Json/10.0.2) for serialization and no longer depends on _Newtonsoft.Json_.

### The .NET implementation of the JsonDataSource Component

The JsonDataSource for .NET now uses [System.Text.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Text.Json/10.0.2) for serialization and no longer depends on _Newtonsoft.Json_.

### WPF Report Viewer for .NET Framework

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2026.01.210.462__. If you are using a newer version, consider adding binding redirects. For more information, see: [How to Add report viewer to a WPF .NET Framework project]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/wpf-application/how-to-add-report-viewer-to-a-wpf-.net-framework-project%}).

### WPF Report Viewer for .NET 8

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2026.01.210.80__ and targets .NET 8.

### WinUI Report Viewer

The viewer is built with Telerik UI for WinUI __4.2.0.0__. WinUI Report Viewer targets .NET 8.

### Standalone Report Designer targeting .NET Framework 4.6.2

TRDX, TRDP, and TRBP report definitions created by the Standalone Report Designer now use schema version __http://schemas.telerik.com/reporting/2026/1.0__.

### Standalone Report Designer for .NET targeting .NET 8.0

TRDX, TRDP, and TRBP report definitions created by the Standalone Report Designer for .NET now use schema version __http://schemas.telerik.com/reporting/2026/1.0__.

## Dependencies

### Telerik Licensing

[Telerik.Licensing __1.6.40__](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Telerik.Licensing/1.6.40).

### Web Report Designer Dependencies

The [Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%}) depends on the following libraries:
* Telerik Kendo UI (__2025.4.1111__)
* Telerik Kendo Themes (__12.3.0__)
* jQuery (__3.7.1__ or later)
* jQuery UI (__1.14.1__ or later)
* Browser's native support for Promise objects. When the browser does not support Promise, the viewer will not try to automatically load it. It's the responsibility of the developer to load Promise functionality from a trusted source in the application.

### HTML5 Report Viewer Dependencies

The [HTML5 Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/html5-report-viewer/overview%}) depends on the following libraries:

* Telerik Kendo UI (__2025.4.1111__)
* jQuery (__3.7.1__ or later)
* Browser's native support for Promise objects. When the browser does not support Promise, the viewer will not try to automatically load it. It's the responsibility of the developer to load Promise functionality from a trusted source in the application.

### Angular Report Viewer Dependencies

The [Angular Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/angular-report-viewer-overview%}) depends on the following:

* NodeJS (Active LTS or Maintenance LTS versions)
* Angular (__19.0.0__ to __21.0.0__)
* jQuery (__^1.10.0 || ^2.2.0 || ^3.7.1"__)

### Native Angular Report Viewer

* NodeJS (Active LTS or Maintenance LTS versions)
* Angular (__19.0.0__ to __21.0.0__)
* Kendo UI for Angular (__21.1.*__)

### React Report Viewer Dependencies

The [React Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/react-report-viewer/react-report-viewer-overview%}) depends on the following:

* React (__16.8.6__ or later)
* React-DOM (__16.8.6__ or later)
* jQuery (__3.7.0__ or later)

### Native Blazor Report Viewer

The viewer is built with Telerik UI for Blazor __9.1.0__.

### HttpClient Dependencies

Connecting a desktop report viewer (WinForms or WPF) to a REST service or Report Server instance requires the following NuGet packages:

* Newtonsoft.Json (__13.0.1__ or later for .NET Framework projects)
* Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.Client (__6.0.0__ or later for .NET Framework projects, __5.2.7__ or later for .NET Core projects)

### WebServiceDataSource Component Dependencies

The [WebServiceDataSource]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/webservicedatasource-component/overview%}) requires the following NuGet packages:

* Microsoft.Net.Http (__2.2.29__ or later) - only for .NET Framework projects 
* Newtonsoft.Json (__13.0.1.0__ or later) - only for .NET Framework projects

### ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service Dependencies

The [ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-api-reference/overview%}) requires the following NuGet packages:

* Microsoft ASP.NET Web API (__5.3.0__ or later)
* Newtonsoft.Json (__13.0.1.0__ or later)

### CubeDataSource Dependencies

If you are using [CubeDataSource]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/cubedatasource-component/overview%}), the version of your Microsoft.AnalysisServices.AdomdClient should be __10.0.0.0__ or later.

### Database Cache Provider Dependencies

If you are using [Database Cache Provider]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/cache-management/other-reportviewer-controls/configuring-the-database-cache-provider%}), the version of your Telerik Data Access ORM should be __2015.1.225.1__ or later.

### Internal Cache

The internal cache uses SQLite version __3.50.4__ for .NET Framework projects and __3.50.4__ for .NET 8+ projects.

### REST Service Redis Storage Dependencies

The [REST Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/overview%}) with [Redis Storage implementation]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-service-storage/how-to-use-redis-storage%}) depends on one of the following:

* StackExchange.Redis version 2.8.16 or greater.

### REST Service MSSQL Storage Dependencies

The [REST Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/overview%}) with [MSSQL Storage implementation]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-service-storage/how-to-configure-an-mssql-database-storage%}) depends on:

* System.Data.SqlClient version 4.0 (depending on the installed .NET Framework runtime) for .NET Framework projects and [Microsoft.Data.SqlClient v6.1.4](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Data.SqlClient/6.1.4) or greater for .NET 8+ projects.
