doc-output/configure-the-export-formats/excel-2007-device-information-settings.md, before:

---
title: Excel 2007 Device Information Settings
page_title: Excel 2007 (XLSX) Device Information Settings at a glance
description: "Find detailed information about the different Excel 2007 (XLSX) rendering settings available, and how to configure them."
slug: telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/configure-the-export-formats/excel-2007-device-information-settings
tags: excel, 2007, xlsx, device, information, settings, options
published: True
position: 4
previous_url: /device-information-settings-excel-2007
---

<style>
table th:first-of-type {
	width: 23%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(2) {
	width: 7%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(3) {
	width: 70%;
}
</style>

# Device Information Settings for the Excel 2007 (XLSX) rendering format

The following table lists the device information settings for rendering in Excel 2007 (XLSX) format.

## Available Excel 2007 Device Information Settings

> The names of the properties in Device Information Settings are __Case-Sensitive__.

|__Name__|__Type__|__Description__|
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
|UseNativePageHeader|Boolean|Specifies whether to render the report’s page header in the native Excel page header section. When __false__ (default value) the page header is rendered as a sequence of frozen rows at the top of the worksheet.|
|UseNativePageFooter|Boolean|Specifies whether to render the report’s page footer in the native Excel page footer section. When false, the footer is rendered as sequence of excel cells. Default value is __true__.|
|ShowGridlines|Boolean|Specifies whether Excel Gridlines are visible. Default value is __false__.|
|UseMetafile|Boolean|A flag specifying whether to render Graph, Map and Barcode items as [Metafile (EMF)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/gdiplus/-gdiplus-metafiles-about) or [Bitmap](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/gdiplus/-gdiplus-types-of-bitmaps-about) images. The default value is __true__.|
|UseExtendedFormatting|Boolean|Format strings used throughout the report will be hard-coded with "Custom Format" in Excel which includes the locale information of the server. This way the formatting from the report definition is preserved and does not depend on the client machine locale where the document is opened. The custom format information can be omitted by setting __UseExtendedFormatting = false__. Default value is __true__.|
|SplitWorksheetOnPageBreak|Boolean|Specifies whether rendering should generate a new worksheet on soft page breaks. The supported page breaks are [ReportSection.PageBreak](/api/Telerik.Reporting.ReportSection#Telerik_Reporting_ReportSection_PageBreak) and [TableGroup.PageBreak](/api/Telerik.Reporting.TableGroup#Telerik_Reporting_TableGroup_PageBreak). When _SplitWorksheetOnPageBreak_ is enabled, the report property [SkipBlankPages](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Report#Telerik_Reporting_Report_SkipBlankPages) is respected and the empty worksheets will not be included in the generated document. The worksheet generation algorithm complies with the rules set in the report definition and might differ from the soft page breaks generated by the rendering extensions that utilize the paging algorithm. The default value is __false__.|

For an example of how to set up the settings for a rendering extension, see [extensions Element]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/configure-the-report-engine/extensions-element%}).

## See Also

* [Device Information Settings]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/configure-the-export-formats/overview%})
* [Export Formats]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/export-formats%})

Commit message:

Added 'FormulaPrefix' description to Excel Device Information Settings articles (#1141)
* Update excel-2007-device-information-settings.md

* Update excel-2003-device-information-settings.md

doc-output/configure-the-export-formats/excel-2007-device-information-settings.md, after:

---
title: Excel 2007 Device Information Settings
page_title: Excel 2007 (XLSX) Device Information Settings at a glance
description: "Find detailed information about the different Excel 2007 (XLSX) rendering settings available, and how to configure them."
slug: telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/configure-the-export-formats/excel-2007-device-information-settings
tags: excel, 2007, xlsx, device, information, settings, options
published: True
position: 4
previous_url: /device-information-settings-excel-2007
---

<style>
table th:first-of-type {
	width: 23%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(2) {
	width: 7%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(3) {
	width: 70%;
}
</style>

# Device Information Settings for the Excel 2007 (XLSX) rendering format

The following table lists the device information settings for rendering in Excel 2007 (XLSX) format.

## Available Excel 2007 Device Information Settings

> The names of the properties in Device Information Settings are __Case-Sensitive__.

|__Name__|__Type__|__Description__|
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
|UseNativePageHeader|Boolean|Specifies whether to render the report’s page header in the native Excel page header section. When __false__ (default value) the page header is rendered as a sequence of frozen rows at the top of the worksheet.|
|UseNativePageFooter|Boolean|Specifies whether to render the report’s page footer in the native Excel page footer section. When false, the footer is rendered as sequence of excel cells. Default value is __true__.|
|ShowGridlines|Boolean|Specifies whether Excel Gridlines are visible. Default value is __false__.|
|UseMetafile|Boolean|A flag specifying whether to render Graph, Map and Barcode items as [Metafile (EMF)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/gdiplus/-gdiplus-metafiles-about) or [Bitmap](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/gdiplus/-gdiplus-types-of-bitmaps-about) images. The default value is __true__.|
|UseExtendedFormatting|Boolean|Format strings used throughout the report will be hard-coded with "Custom Format" in Excel which includes the locale information of the server. This way the formatting from the report definition is preserved and does not depend on the client machine locale where the document is opened. The custom format information can be omitted by setting __UseExtendedFormatting = false__. Default value is __true__.|
|SplitWorksheetOnPageBreak|Boolean|Specifies whether rendering should generate a new worksheet on soft page breaks. The supported page breaks are [ReportSection.PageBreak](/api/Telerik.Reporting.ReportSection#Telerik_Reporting_ReportSection_PageBreak) and [TableGroup.PageBreak](/api/Telerik.Reporting.TableGroup#Telerik_Reporting_TableGroup_PageBreak). When _SplitWorksheetOnPageBreak_ is enabled, the report property [SkipBlankPages](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Report#Telerik_Reporting_Report_SkipBlankPages) is respected and the empty worksheets will not be included in the generated document. The worksheet generation algorithm complies with the rules set in the report definition and might differ from the soft page breaks generated by the rendering extensions that utilize the paging algorithm. The default value is __false__.|
|FormulaPrefix|String|By default, all of the generated cell values are marked as values rather than formulae. However, if the values are not escaped, there is no guarantee that Excel will not treat values that start with formula identifier as formulae. The purpose of the __FormulaPrefix__ property is to mitigate this by allowing the user to specify a formula prefix that will be used to escape values that start with a formula identifier. The recommended formula prefix is the single quotes character ` ' `. The **default value** is an empty string which keeps the original cell values intact.|

For an example of how to set up the settings for a rendering extension, see [extensions Element]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/configure-the-report-engine/extensions-element%}).

## See Also

* [Device Information Settings]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/configure-the-export-formats/overview%})
* [Export Formats]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/export-formats%})
