designing-reports/report-book/how-to-create-a-report-book-at-run-time.md, before:

---
title: Creating a Report Book at run-time
page_title: Instantiating Report Books at run-time 
description: "Learn how a Telerik ReportBook object can be created and edited at runtime through code in order to render multiple reports at the same time."
slug: telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-book/how-to-create-a-report-book-at-run-time
tags: how,to,create,instantiate,a,report,book,at,run-time
published: True
position: 6
previous_url: /designing-reports-reportbook-creating-reportbook-run-time
---

# How to Create a Report Book at run-time

You can programmatically create a report book at run-time by using the Telerik Reporting API.         

The following steps are required to create a report book at run-time:         

1. Create an instance of the ReportBook class

1. Add the necessary ReportSources to its `ReportSources` collection.

Alternatively, you can derive from the ReportBook class and initialize the book in the constructor if you want to separate the report book implementation details from the rest of your code.         

In the sample below we add two reports:         

1. First is the 'WeekdayReport', which is a CS/VB class inheriting from Telerik.Reporting.Report. It is added as a `TypeReportSource` - check [Available ReportSources]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-sources/overview%}).             

1. Second is the 'Glossary.trdp' report created with the Standalone Designer. It is added wrapped in a `UriReportSource`. You need to specify the relative or full path to the TRDP file:

{{source=CodeSnippets\CS\API\Telerik\Reporting\ReportBookSnippets.cs region=CreateReportBook}}
{{source=CodeSnippets\VB\API\Telerik\Reporting\ReportBookSnippets.vb region=CreateReportBook}}

Commit message:

Update how-to-create-a-report-book-at-run-time.md (#1189)

designing-reports/report-book/how-to-create-a-report-book-at-run-time.md, after:

---
title: Creating a Report Book at Runtime
page_title: Instantiating Report Books at runtime
description: "Learn how a Telerik ReportBook object can be created and edited at runtime through code in order to render multiple reports at the same time."
slug: telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-book/how-to-create-a-report-book-at-run-time
tags: how,to,create,instantiate,a,report,book,at,runtime
published: True
position: 6
previous_url: /designing-reports-reportbook-creating-reportbook-run-time
---

# How to Create a Report Book at Runtime

You can programmatically create a report book at runtime by using the Telerik Reporting API.

The following steps are required to create a report book at runtime:

1. Create an instance of the ReportBook class
1. Add the necessary ReportSources to its `ReportSources` collection.

Alternatively, you can derive from the ReportBook class and initialize the book in the constructor if you want to separate the report book implementation details from the rest of your code.

In the sample below we add two reports:

1. First is the 'WeekdayReport', which is a CS/VB class inheriting from Telerik.Reporting.Report. It is added as a `TypeReportSource` - check [Available ReportSources]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-sources/overview%}).
1. Second is the 'Glossary.trdp' report created with the Standalone Designer. It is added wrapped in a `UriReportSource`. You need to specify the relative or full path to the TRDP file:

{{source=CodeSnippets\CS\API\Telerik\Reporting\ReportBookSnippets.cs region=CreateReportBook}}
{{source=CodeSnippets\VB\API\Telerik\Reporting\ReportBookSnippets.vb region=CreateReportBook}}
