user-guide/app-tour.md, before:

---
title: App Tour
page_title: App Tour - Web Report Designer User Guide
description: Explore the Web Report Designer's panes and discover the features it offers.
slug: user-guide/app-tour
tags: web, report, design, tool, create, report, web, structure 
published: True
reportingArea: WRDHTML5, WRDBlazorWrapper
position: 5
---

# App Tour of the Web Report Designer

The fastest way to explore the Web Report Designer and to learn its basics is to start the built-in onboarding tour, which walks you through the Report Designer's main tools.

The app tour starts automatically the first time you open an application with an embedded Telerik Web Report Designer.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5333a5ZHC_g?si=8n6kfCvDem4s9bfv&rel=0" title="Web Report Designer: An App Tour" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

As illustrated by the video above, the main elements of the Web Report Designer's user interface are:

* An interactive **Design surface** where you  create and style your report.
* A **Components tray** which contains all of the items that you can add to the report.
* An **Explorer** providing a tree-based structure of everything that is already in the report, including the data structure.
* A **Properties area** which shows the properties and values for the currently selected component.
* A **Main menu** which lets you open, save, and interact with reports on a global level along with the **Asset Manager** which is where you store all of your assets.
* A **Preview** button which shows an exact representation of the designed report.
* A **Search box** which allows you to search the report instance for any properties, component data sources, and so on. The Search box also allows you to locate tools, such as components that you can add to the report.

To view the app tour again, type `Start onboarding` in the search box.

## See Also

* [Create a Simple Report]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-getting-started%})
* [Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%})

Commit message:

wrd analytics (#1915)
* wrd analytics

* Update wrd-analytics.png

user-guide/app-tour.md, after:

---
title: App Tour
page_title: App Tour - Web Report Designer User Guide
description: Explore the Web Report Designer's panes and discover the features it offers.
slug: user-guide/app-tour
tags: web, report, design, tool, create, report, web, structure 
published: True
reportingArea: WRDHTML5, WRDBlazorWrapper
position: 5
---

# App Tour of the Web Report Designer

The fastest way to explore the Web Report Designer and to learn its basics is to start the built-in onboarding tour, which walks you through the Report Designer's main tools.

The guide, by default, starts with the optional `Help us improve!` dialog asking the web designer user for agreement to collect non-personal usage data.

![Web Report Designer Analytics Looking ><](images/wrd-analytics.png) 

> The purpose of this analytical data is to gather general details on the usage of the designer's components and wizards/tools. The reason we want to analyse this data is to improve the web designer based on its actual usage feedback.

The app tour starts automatically the first time you open an application with an embedded Telerik Web Report Designer.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5333a5ZHC_g?si=8n6kfCvDem4s9bfv&rel=0" title="Web Report Designer: An App Tour" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

As illustrated by the video above, the main elements of the Web Report Designer's user interface are:

* An interactive **Design surface** where you  create and style your report.
* A **Components tray** which contains all of the items that you can add to the report.
* An **Explorer** providing a tree-based structure of everything that is already in the report, including the data structure.
* A **Properties area** which shows the properties and values for the currently selected component.
* A **Main menu** which lets you open, save, and interact with reports on a global level along with the **Asset Manager** which is where you store all of your assets.
* A **Preview** button which shows an exact representation of the designed report.
* A **Search box** which allows you to search the report instance for any properties, component data sources, and so on. The Search box also allows you to locate tools, such as components that you can add to the report.

To view the app tour again, type `Start onboarding` in the search box.

## See Also

* [Create a Simple Report]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-getting-started%})
* [Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%})
