user-guide/user-guide-overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Overview - Web Report Designer User Guide
description: "Explore the Web Report Designer user guide and discover how to apply the powerful features of the report designer to effortlessly craft rich dynamic reports."
slug: user-guide/overview
tags: overview,web,report,designer,tool,design,create,report,web
published: True
position: 0
---
<style>
    img[alt$="><"] {
  display: block;
  max-width: 100%;
  height: auto;
  margin: auto;
  float: none!important;
}
</style>

# Web Report Designer User Guide: An Overview

The [Web Report Designer](https://demos.telerik.com/reporting/designer) User Guide is intended to assist the end-users of business applications that integrate [Telerik Reporting]({%slug telerikreporting/welcome-to-telerik-reporting!%}). This guide aims to provide the knowledge required for the successful crafting and maintenance of reports. The primary audience for this user guide are business application users.

> If you are a developer who integrates Telerik Reporting into web applications, see the [application developer section]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%}) of the Web Report Designer documentation or the [Getting Started tutorial]({%slug telerikreporting/getting-started/web-designer/set-up-and-create-basic-report%}). 

## What is the Web Report Designer?

The Web Report Designer is a tool developed to let business application users design, create, and export reports directly in their web browser without needing any additional software. The reports can source their data from various databases, for example, relational, multi-dimensional, ORM, or custom data-layer-based data sources.

![Ninja Looking ><](images/ninja_looking.png)

![UI Overview of the Telerik Web Report Designer](./images/wrd-components-callouts.png)

1. Main menu—allows you to open or close reports, create new ones, access workspace-related preferences and more.
1. Components tab—provides access to all components that you can include in you report, for example, items, tables, charts, sections and others.
1. Currently opened report—allows you to switch between the opened reports.
1. Explorer tab—represents the structure of the report as a tree.
1. Search box—enables the quick access to report items and components.
1. Design surface—represents the layout of the report.
1. Properties area—provides access to the properties of the currently selected report component.

## What's in this User Guide?

This user guide includes articles that describe common scenarios related to the design and configuration of reports. In addition, you will also find conceptual information and videos that illustrates basic reporting principles, for example, how to [structure a report]({%slug user-guide/report-structure%}).

## Next Steps

* [Take an App Tour]({%slug user-guide/app-tour%})
* [Create a Simple Report]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-getting-started%})
* [Explore the Structure of a Report]({%slug user-guide/report-structure%})

{% if site.has_cta_panels == true %}
{% include cta-panel-overview.html %}
{% endif %}

Commit message:

chore: fix typos and grammar errors (#1816)
* chore: fix typos and grammar errors

- fixed a few typos, grammar errors, and some incorrect statements.

* Apply suggestions from code review

* Apply suggestions from review - components.md

* Apply suggestions from review - components.md

* Apply suggestions from review - components.md

* Apply suggestions from review - components.md

* Aply suggestions from review - report-items.md

* Apply suggestions from review - report-items.md

* Apply suggestions from review - maps.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Yordan <60105689+yordan-mitev@users.noreply.github.com>

user-guide/user-guide-overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Overview - Web Report Designer User Guide
description: "Explore the Web Report Designer user guide and discover how to apply the powerful features of the report designer to effortlessly craft rich dynamic reports."
slug: user-guide/overview
tags: overview,web,report,designer,tool,design,create,report,web
published: True
position: 0
---
<style>
    img[alt$="><"] {
  display: block;
  max-width: 100%;
  height: auto;
  margin: auto;
  float: none!important;
}
</style>

# Web Report Designer User Guide: An Overview

The [Web Report Designer](https://demos.telerik.com/reporting/designer) User Guide is intended to assist the end users of business applications that integrate [Telerik Reporting]({%slug telerikreporting/welcome-to-telerik-reporting!%}). This guide aims to provide the knowledge required for the successful crafting and maintenance of reports. The primary audience for this user guide is business application users.

> If you are a developer who integrates Telerik Reporting into web applications, see the [application developer section]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%}) of the Web Report Designer documentation or the [Getting Started tutorial]({%slug telerikreporting/getting-started/web-designer/set-up-and-create-basic-report%}). 

## What is the Web Report Designer?

The Web Report Designer is a tool developed to let business application users design, create, and export reports directly from their web browser without needing any additional software. The reports can retrieve data from a variety of sources, including relational or multi-dimensional databases, ORM entities, or custom data-layer-based data sources.

![Ninja Looking ><](images/ninja_looking.png)

![UI Overview of the Telerik Web Report Designer](./images/wrd-components-callouts.png)

1. Main menu—allows you to open or close reports, create new ones, access designer assets, adjust workspace preferences, and more.
1. Components tab—provides access to all components that you can include in your report, for example, text boxes, tables, charts, sections, and others.
1. Currently opened report—lets you switch between the opened reports.
1. Explorer tab—represents the structure of the currently opened report.
1. Search box—allows for quickly accessing the report components and modifying their properties.
1. Design surface—represents the layout of the report where you can visually arrange the report components.
1. Properties area—provides access to the properties of the currently selected report component.

## What's in this User Guide?

This user guide contains articles that describe common scenarios related to designing and configuring reports. You will also find conceptual information and videos that illustrate basic reporting principles, for example, how to [structure a report]({%slug user-guide/report-structure%}).

## Next Steps

* [Take an App Tour]({%slug user-guide/app-tour%})
* [Create a Simple Report]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-getting-started%})
* [Explore the Structure of a Report]({%slug user-guide/report-structure%})

{% if site.has_cta_panels == true %}
{% include cta-panel-overview.html %}
{% endif %}
