designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/how-to-set-up-in-blazor-application.md, before:

---
title: Blazor Wrapper Component
page_title: How to integrate the Web Report Designer in Blazor Projects
description: "Learn how to set up the Blazor Web Report Designer and the required REST Services in Blazor applications."
slug: telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/how-to-set-up-in-blazor-application
tags: how,to,set,up,web,report,designer,in,a,blazor,webapp,wasm,webassembly,server,application
published: True
reportingArea: WRDBlazorWrapper, WRDRestServiceCore
position: 2
previous_url: /how-to-blazor-web-report-designer
---

# How to set the Blazor Wrapper of the Web Report Designer

> The following article will guide you on how to use the **Blazor Wrapper** for [Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%}) in a [Blazor](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/apps/aspnet/web-apps/blazor) web application.

The quickest way to add the **Blazor Web Report Designer** to a Blazor project is with the __Telerik Blazor Report Designer__ item template in Visual Studio. The item template adds a page with the Web Report Designer and, if needed, enables the Web Report Designer REST Service. To start the item template wizard, in Visual Studio `Solution Explorer`, select the target .NET project. On the Project menu, click `Add` -> `New Item`. In the Add New Item search box enter "*Telerik Blazor Report Designer*" and select the item template that corresponds to your project type.

Alternatively, instead of using the item template, the Designer REST service and the Blazor Web Report Designer can be manually implemented as elaborated in this article.

## Prerequisites

* [Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/)
* Existing .NET {{site.mindotnetversion}} or higher `Blazor Web App/Server/ WebAssembly` application
* The designer consumes reports generated and served from a running REST Service. Such can be referenced from another application or it can be hosted locally in the Blazor application as described below.

## Adding the Report Designer REST Service and Configuration

>note If **Blazor WebAssembly** project is used, this section's steps should be implemented in a separate ASP.NET Core Web API project because the service runs on the server and Blazor WebAssembly is strictly client-side - [`Hosting Reports Service in ASP.NET Core with Top-Level Statements Explained`]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/asp.net-core-web-api-implementation/how-to-host-reports-service-in-asp.net-core-in-.net-6-with-minimal-api%})

1. Use the NuGet package manager to add the `Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services` package. This will also resolve other dependencies automatically. For more information, see [How to add the Telerik private NuGet feed to Visual Studio]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/how-to-add-the-telerik-private-nuget-feed-to-visual-studio%}).
1. Add the required settings in the **Program.cs** file. Make sure the application is configured for WebAPI controllers and call the [`AddNewtonsoftJson`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection.newtonsoftjsonmvcbuilderextensions.addnewtonsoftjson) extension method to enable the required **NewtonsoftJson** serialization:

	````CSharp
builder.Services.AddRazorPages().AddNewtonsoftJson();
	builder.Services.AddControllers();
````


1. Add the required services in the **Program.cs** file as well. The sample configuration below uses a `Reports` folder located at the root of the project(thus the usage of the [ContentRootPath](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.hosting.ihostingenvironment.contentrootpath) property, to open and save report definitions. It is required to create the `Reports` folder manually in the root of the project, and optionally, add some report definitions inside.

	````CSharp
builder.Services.TryAddSingleton<IReportServiceConfiguration>(sp => new ReportServiceConfiguration
	{
		ReportingEngineConfiguration = sp.GetService<IConfiguration>(),
		HostAppId = "BlazorWebReportDesignerDemo",
		Storage = new FileStorage(),
		ReportSourceResolver = new UriReportSourceResolver(Path.Combine(sp.GetService<IWebHostEnvironment>().WebRootPath, "Reports"))
	});
	builder.Services.TryAddSingleton<IReportDesignerServiceConfiguration>(sp => new ReportDesignerServiceConfiguration
	{
		DefinitionStorage = new FileDefinitionStorage(Path.Combine(sp.GetService<IWebHostEnvironment>().ContentRootPath, "Reports")),
		SettingsStorage = new FileSettingsStorage(Path.Combine(Environment.GetFolderPath(Environment.SpecialFolder.ApplicationData), "Telerik Reporting")),
		ResourceStorage = new ResourceStorage(Path.Combine(sp.GetService<IWebHostEnvironment>().ContentRootPath, "Resources")),
		SharedDataSourceStorage = new FileSharedDataSourceStorage(Path.Combine(sp.GetService<IWebHostEnvironment>().ContentRootPath, "Reports", "Shared Data Sources")),
	});
````


1. Make sure the endpoints configuration inside the **Program.cs** file is configured for API controllers by adding the following line in the lambda expression argument:

	````CSharp
app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
	{
		endpoints.MapControllers();
	});
````


1. If not already present, add the following line in the **Program.cs** to ensure that the application can serve static files: 

	````CSharp
app.UseStaticFiles();
````


1. Implement a Report Designer controller. Add a **Controllers** folder to the application and right-click on it to add a new __Web API Controller Class__ item. Name it `ReportDesignerController`, for example. This will be the Telerik Web Report Designer REST service in the project.

	````CSharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
	using Telerik.Reporting.Services;
	using Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services;
	using Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services.Controllers;
	[Route("api/reportdesigner")]
	[ApiController]
	public class ReportDesignerController : ReportDesignerControllerBase
	{
		public ReportDesignerController(IReportDesignerServiceConfiguration reportDesignerServiceConfiguration, IReportServiceConfiguration reportServiceConfiguration)
			: base(reportDesignerServiceConfiguration, reportServiceConfiguration)
		{
		}
	}
````


## Adding the Blazor Web Report Designer component

1. Add NuGet package reference to the `Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Blazor` package hosted on the Progress Telerik proprietary NuGet feed. Make sure you have the needed NuGet feed added to the VS setting using the article [How to add the Telerik private NuGet feed to Visual Studio]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/how-to-add-the-telerik-private-nuget-feed-to-visual-studio%}).
1. Add JavaScript dependencies to the __head__ element of the `Pages/_Host.cshtml` (Blazor Server) or `wwwroot/index.html` (Blazor WebAssembly), or `App.razor` (Blazor Web App):

	````HTML
<script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/3.7.1/jquery.min.js"></script>
	<script src="https://kendo.cdn.telerik.com/{{kendosubsetversion}}/js/kendo.all.min.js"></script>
	<script src="/api/reportdesigner/resources/js/telerikReportViewer"></script>
	<script src="/api/reportdesigner/designerresources/js/webReportDesigner/"></script>
	<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:400,500&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">
````


1. Add the dedicated `telerikWebReportDesignerInterop.js` dependency at the end of the __body__ element of the `Pages/_Host.cshtml` (Blazor Server) or `wwwroot/index.html` (Blazor WebAssembly), or in `App Razor` (Blazor Web App):

	````HTML
<script src="_content/Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Blazor/telerikWebReportDesignerInterop.js" defer></script>
````


1. Use the following snippet to place the designer component in a razor page like `Pages/Index.razor`.

	````HTML
@page "/"
	@* For Blazor Web Apps, an interactive render mode should be used, for example: *@
	@* @rendermode InteractiveServer *@
	@using Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Blazor

	<style>
		#wrd1 {
			position: relative;
			width: 1300px;
			height: 880px;
			padding-right: 50px;
		}
	</style>
	@* Create the WebReportDesignerWidget *@
	<WebReportDesigner DesignerId="wrd1"
				ServiceUrl="/api/reportdesigner"
				Report="SampleReport.trdp"
				ReportViewerOptions="@(new ReportViewerOptions() {
					templateUrl = "api/reportdesigner/resources/templates/telerikReportViewerTemplate.html",
					scaleMode = ScaleMode.Specific,
					scale = 1.0,
					pageMode = PageMode.ContinuousScroll,
					viewMode = ViewMode.Interactive
				})"
				ToolboxArea="new ToolboxAreaOptions() { Layout = ToolboxAreaLayout.List }"
				PropertiesArea="new PropertiesAreaOptions() { Layout = PropertiesAreaLayout.Categorized }" />
````


1. The __Report__ option will instruct the designer to look for *SampleReport.trdp* inside the `Reports` folder on the first load. You can create this report definition in the folder or omit the __Report__ option above. Finally, run the project.

Commit message:

docs: add note in wrd articles about the kendo subset script

designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/how-to-set-up-in-blazor-application.md, after:

---
title: Blazor Wrapper Component
page_title: How to integrate the Web Report Designer in Blazor Projects
description: "Learn how to set up the Blazor Web Report Designer and the required REST Services in Blazor applications."
slug: telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/how-to-set-up-in-blazor-application
tags: how,to,set,up,web,report,designer,in,a,blazor,webapp,wasm,webassembly,server,application
published: True
reportingArea: WRDBlazorWrapper, WRDRestServiceCore
position: 2
previous_url: /how-to-blazor-web-report-designer
---

# How to set the Blazor Wrapper of the Web Report Designer

> The following article will guide you on how to use the **Blazor Wrapper** for [Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%}) in a [Blazor](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/apps/aspnet/web-apps/blazor) web application.

The quickest way to add the **Blazor Web Report Designer** to a Blazor project is with the __Telerik Blazor Report Designer__ item template in Visual Studio. The item template adds a page with the Web Report Designer and, if needed, enables the Web Report Designer REST Service. To start the item template wizard, in Visual Studio `Solution Explorer`, select the target .NET project. On the Project menu, click `Add` -> `New Item`. In the Add New Item search box enter "*Telerik Blazor Report Designer*" and select the item template that corresponds to your project type.

Alternatively, instead of using the item template, the Designer REST service and the Blazor Web Report Designer can be manually implemented as elaborated in this article.

## Prerequisites

* [Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/)
* Existing .NET {{site.mindotnetversion}} or higher `Blazor Web App/Server/ WebAssembly` application
* The designer consumes reports generated and served from a running REST Service. Such can be referenced from another application or it can be hosted locally in the Blazor application as described below.

## Adding the Report Designer REST Service and Configuration

>note If **Blazor WebAssembly** project is used, this section's steps should be implemented in a separate ASP.NET Core Web API project because the service runs on the server and Blazor WebAssembly is strictly client-side - [`Hosting Reports Service in ASP.NET Core with Top-Level Statements Explained`]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/asp.net-core-web-api-implementation/how-to-host-reports-service-in-asp.net-core-in-.net-6-with-minimal-api%})

1. Use the NuGet package manager to add the `Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services` package. This will also resolve other dependencies automatically. For more information, see [How to add the Telerik private NuGet feed to Visual Studio]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/how-to-add-the-telerik-private-nuget-feed-to-visual-studio%}).
1. Add the required settings in the **Program.cs** file. Make sure the application is configured for WebAPI controllers and call the [`AddNewtonsoftJson`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection.newtonsoftjsonmvcbuilderextensions.addnewtonsoftjson) extension method to enable the required **NewtonsoftJson** serialization:

	````CSharp
builder.Services.AddRazorPages().AddNewtonsoftJson();
	builder.Services.AddControllers();
````


1. Add the required services in the **Program.cs** file as well. The sample configuration below uses a `Reports` folder located at the root of the project(thus the usage of the [ContentRootPath](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.hosting.ihostingenvironment.contentrootpath) property, to open and save report definitions. It is required to create the `Reports` folder manually in the root of the project, and optionally, add some report definitions inside.

	````CSharp
builder.Services.TryAddSingleton<IReportServiceConfiguration>(sp => new ReportServiceConfiguration
	{
		ReportingEngineConfiguration = sp.GetService<IConfiguration>(),
		HostAppId = "BlazorWebReportDesignerDemo",
		Storage = new FileStorage(),
		ReportSourceResolver = new UriReportSourceResolver(Path.Combine(sp.GetService<IWebHostEnvironment>().WebRootPath, "Reports"))
	});
	builder.Services.TryAddSingleton<IReportDesignerServiceConfiguration>(sp => new ReportDesignerServiceConfiguration
	{
		DefinitionStorage = new FileDefinitionStorage(Path.Combine(sp.GetService<IWebHostEnvironment>().ContentRootPath, "Reports")),
		SettingsStorage = new FileSettingsStorage(Path.Combine(Environment.GetFolderPath(Environment.SpecialFolder.ApplicationData), "Telerik Reporting")),
		ResourceStorage = new ResourceStorage(Path.Combine(sp.GetService<IWebHostEnvironment>().ContentRootPath, "Resources")),
		SharedDataSourceStorage = new FileSharedDataSourceStorage(Path.Combine(sp.GetService<IWebHostEnvironment>().ContentRootPath, "Reports", "Shared Data Sources")),
	});
````


1. Make sure the endpoints configuration inside the **Program.cs** file is configured for API controllers by adding the following line in the lambda expression argument:

	````CSharp
app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
	{
		endpoints.MapControllers();
	});
````


1. If not already present, add the following line in the **Program.cs** to ensure that the application can serve static files: 

	````CSharp
app.UseStaticFiles();
````


1. Implement a Report Designer controller. Add a **Controllers** folder to the application and right-click on it to add a new __Web API Controller Class__ item. Name it `ReportDesignerController`, for example. This will be the Telerik Web Report Designer REST service in the project.

	````CSharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
	using Telerik.Reporting.Services;
	using Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services;
	using Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services.Controllers;
	[Route("api/reportdesigner")]
	[ApiController]
	public class ReportDesignerController : ReportDesignerControllerBase
	{
		public ReportDesignerController(IReportDesignerServiceConfiguration reportDesignerServiceConfiguration, IReportServiceConfiguration reportServiceConfiguration)
			: base(reportDesignerServiceConfiguration, reportServiceConfiguration)
		{
		}
	}
````


## Adding the Blazor Web Report Designer component

1. Add NuGet package reference to the `Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Blazor` package hosted on the Progress Telerik proprietary NuGet feed. Make sure you have the needed NuGet feed added to the VS setting using the article [How to add the Telerik private NuGet feed to Visual Studio]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/how-to-add-the-telerik-private-nuget-feed-to-visual-studio%}).
1. Add JavaScript dependencies to the __head__ element of the `Pages/_Host.cshtml` (Blazor Server) or `wwwroot/index.html` (Blazor WebAssembly), or `App.razor` (Blazor Web App):

	````HTML
<script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/3.7.1/jquery.min.js"></script>
	<script src="https://kendo.cdn.telerik.com/{{kendosubsetversion}}/js/kendo.all.min.js"></script>
	<script src="/api/reportdesigner/resources/js/telerikReportViewer"></script>
	<script src="/api/reportdesigner/designerresources/js/webReportDesigner/"></script>
	<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:400,500&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">
````


	The `kendo.all.min.js` script from the Kendo CDN includes all Kendo UI for jQuery components and requires a valid Kendo UI license, which may display license warnings. To avoid this, Telerik Reporting includes a license-free subset containing only the Kendo UI components required by the Web Report Designer. You can copy this file from your installation directory at `C:\Program Files (x86)\Progress\Telerik Reporting {{site.suiteversion}}\Html5\ReportDesigner\js\webReportDesigner.kendo-{{site.buildversion}}.min.js` and reference it locally in your project instead of the CDN version.

1. Add the dedicated `telerikWebReportDesignerInterop.js` dependency at the end of the __body__ element of the `Pages/_Host.cshtml` (Blazor Server) or `wwwroot/index.html` (Blazor WebAssembly), or in `App Razor` (Blazor Web App):

	````HTML
<script src="_content/Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Blazor/telerikWebReportDesignerInterop.js" defer></script>
````


1. Use the following snippet to place the designer component in a razor page like `Pages/Index.razor`.

	````HTML
@page "/"
	@* For Blazor Web Apps, an interactive render mode should be used, for example: *@
	@* @rendermode InteractiveServer *@
	@using Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Blazor

	<style>
		#wrd1 {
			position: relative;
			width: 1300px;
			height: 880px;
			padding-right: 50px;
		}
	</style>
	@* Create the WebReportDesignerWidget *@
	<WebReportDesigner DesignerId="wrd1"
				ServiceUrl="/api/reportdesigner"
				Report="SampleReport.trdp"
				ReportViewerOptions="@(new ReportViewerOptions() {
					templateUrl = "api/reportdesigner/resources/templates/telerikReportViewerTemplate.html",
					scaleMode = ScaleMode.Specific,
					scale = 1.0,
					pageMode = PageMode.ContinuousScroll,
					viewMode = ViewMode.Interactive
				})"
				ToolboxArea="new ToolboxAreaOptions() { Layout = ToolboxAreaLayout.List }"
				PropertiesArea="new PropertiesAreaOptions() { Layout = PropertiesAreaLayout.Categorized }" />
````


1. The __Report__ option will instruct the designer to look for *SampleReport.trdp* inside the `Reports` folder on the first load. You can create this report definition in the folder or omit the __Report__ option above. Finally, run the project.
