---
title: R2 2016
page_title: R2 2016 Release Overview 
description: "Learn more about the changes introduced in the R2 2016 Telerik Reporting release, as well as the required dependencies to use each product."
slug: telerikreporting/upgrade/2016/r2-2016
tags: r2,2016
published: True
position: 2
previous_url: /upgrade-path-2016-r2
---

# Changes in the R2 2016 Release

This article explains the manual changes required when upgrading to Telerik Reporting R2 2016 (10.1.16.504).

## Known Issues

* Report viewers Visual Studio item templates: Fail when trdp report definition is used for existing report and with sample report option. 

* Standalone Report Designer: The Data Source design time parameter values are lost on saving the report in different report format (from .trdp to .trdx and from .trdx to .trdp). 

* Printing reports: Paper size is not respected when using __Custom__ paper kind. 

## Changes

### Standalone Report Designer

New default report document format is used by the [Overview]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/overview%}) - Telerik Report Definition Package (.trdp). The new format holds the serialized XML report definition and its resources in archived package. This way the document format is faster to handle and more compact. The format is fully supported by all report viewers and Report Server. We continue to fully support the legacy.trdx report format. Thus no change is required on your side. 

TRDX files created by the Standalone Report Designer contain XML version __http://schemas.telerik.com/reporting/2012/4.0__. 

### Reporting API Breaking Change

The interface [IToggleVisibilityTarget](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.IToggleVisibilityTarget) is now __obsolete__. Please use the [IActionTarget](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.IActionTarget) interface instead. 

The class Telerik.Reporting.ToggleVisibilityTargetCollection is now __deprecated__. Please use the [ActionTargetCollection](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.ActionTargetCollection) class instead. 

### WPF Report Viewer Dependencies

The viewer is build with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2016.2.503.40__. If you are using a newer version consider adding binding redirects. For more information see: [How to Add report viewer to a WPF .NET Framework project]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/wpf-application/how-to-add-report-viewer-to-a-wpf-.net-framework-project%}).

### Silverlight Report Viewer Dependencies

The viewer is build with Telerik UI Controls for Silverlight __2016.2.503.1050__. 

## Dependencies

### HTML5 Report Viewer Dependencies

The [HTML5 Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/html5-report-viewer/overview%}) depends on the following libraries: 

* Telerik Kendo UI (__2013.2.918__ or later) 

* jQuery (__1.9.1__ or later) 

### ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service Dependencies

The [ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-api-reference/overview%}) requires the following assemblies: 

* Microsoft ASP.NET Web API (__4.0.20710.0__ or later) 

* Newtonsoft.Json (__4.5.11.15520__ or later) 

### ServiceStack Report Service Dependencies

The [ServiceStack Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/servicestack-implementation/how-to-add-telerik-reporting-rest-servicestack-to-web-application%}) uses ServiceStack (__3.9.70.0__): 

### CubeDataSource Dependencies

If you are using [CubeDataSource]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/cubedatasource-component/overview%}), the version of your Microsoft.AnalysisServices.AdomdClient should be __10.0.0.0__ or later. 

### Database Cache Provider Dependencies

If you are using [Database Cache Provider]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/cache-management/other-reportviewer-controls/configuring-the-database-cache-provider%}), the version of your Telerik Data Access ORM should be __2015.1.225.1__ or later. 
