embedding-reports/host-the-report-engine-remotely/rest-service-storage/how-to-configure-an-mssql-database-storage.md, before:

---
title: MSSQL Database Storage
page_title: Configuring an MSSQL Database Storage
description: "Learn how to Configure an MSSQL Database Storage for the Telerik Reporting REST Service in this Tutorial."
slug: telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-service-storage/how-to-configure-an-mssql-database-storage
tags: how,to,configure,an,mssql,database,storage,tutorial
published: True
position: 1
previous_url: /telerik-reporting-rest-howto-use-mssql-storage,/embedding-reports/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-service-storage/how-to-configure-an-mssql-database-storage
---

# Configuring an MSSQL Database Storage for the Reporting REST Service

This article explains how to configure an MSSQL Database for the Reporting REST Service storage.

1. Ensure a database instance is available for Reporting REST Service storage. This may be a dedicated database or a shared database for both app data and Reporting REST Service storage.

	1. Start the __Telerik Database Cache Configurator__ tool located in the *{Telerik Reporting installation folder}/Tools* folder.
	1. In *Choose database usage* combo-box select the "Configure REST service storage database" option.
	1. In *Choose target backend* combo-box select the "Microsoft SQL Server" option.
	1. In *Specify connection string* text box enter the connection string that references the target database. You can also click the *Build* button and create the connection string using the *Connection properties* form.
	1. Click on the *Create schema* button to start the database schema creation.
	1. A message box should be displayed, confirming that the storage tables are successfully created. Use the connection string specified above when initializing an instance of [MsSqlServerStorage](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Cache.MsSqlServerStorage) in your application.
	1. In case you want to cleanup the storage tables in an existing database, use the button *Clear cache data*.

1. Configure your Telerik Reporting REST Service to use the database storage we just prepared. You may do this in the configuration file of the project as elaborated in the article [restReportService Element]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/configure-the-report-engine/restreportservice-element%}), or when instantiating the [ReportServiceConfiguration](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Services.ReportServiceConfiguration). Here are samples for both scenarios:

	+ Through code when passing [ReportServiceConfiguration](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Services.ReportServiceConfiguration) instance to the REST Service.

		The __ReportSourceResolver__ and __Storage__ configuration settings are required. See the [IReportServiceConfiguration](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Services.IReportServiceConfiguration) interface for more details.

		{{source=CodeSnippets\MvcCS\Controllers\ReportsController.cs region=MSSqlReportsControllerImplementation}}
		{{source=CodeSnippets\MvcVB\Controllers\ReportsController.vb region=MSSqlReportsControllerImplementation}}


	+ Through a configuration file:

		1. You need to pass a [ConfigSectionReportServiceConfiguration](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Services.ConfigSectionReportServiceConfiguration) instance to the REST Service:

			{{source=CodeSnippets\MvcCS\Controllers\ReportsControllerConfigSection.cs region=ReportsControllerConfigSectionImplementation}}
			{{source=CodeSnippets\MvcVB\Controllers\ReportsControllerConfigSection.vb region=ReportsControllerConfigSectionImplementation}}


			The properties from the initialization block would override the values obtained from the configuration file.

		1. Set the corresponding properties values in the REST Service configuration file:

			+ XML-based configuration file:

				````XML
<configuration>
				...
					<Telerik.Reporting>
						<restReportService hostAppId="Application1" workerCount="4" reportSharingTimeout="10" clientSessionTimeout="10" exceptionsVerbosity="detailed">
							<reportResolver provider="type" />
							<storage provider="MSSQLServer">
							<parameters>
								<parameter name="connectionString" value="Data Source=(local)\SQLEXPRESS;Initial Catalog=RestServiceStorage;Integrated Security=SSPI" />
								<parameter name="commandTimeout" value="60" />
							</parameters>
							</storage>
						...
						</restReportService>
					...
					</Telerik.Reporting>
				...
				</configuration>
````


			+ JSON-based configuration file:

				````JSON
"telerikReporting": {
					"restReportService": {
						"hostAppId": "Application1",
						"reportResolver": {
							"provider": "type"
						},
						"storage": {
							"provider": "MSSQLServer",
							"parameters": [
								{
									"name": "connectionString",
									"value": "Data Source=(local)\SQLEXPRESS;Initial Catalog=RestServiceStorage;Integrated Security=SSPI"
								},
								{
									"name": "commandTimeout",
									"value": 60
								}
							]
						}
					},
				...
				}
````


## See Also

* [Overview]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-service-storage/overview%})

Commit message:

Update how-to-configure-an-mssql-database-storage.md (#1609)
* Update how-to-configure-an-mssql-database-storage.md

* Update 2025-q1-19-0-25-212.md

* Update how-to-configure-an-mssql-database-storage.md

* Update 2025-q1-19-0-25-212.md

* Update 2025-q1-19-0-25-212.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Dimitar Nikolov <dnikolov@progress.com>

embedding-reports/host-the-report-engine-remotely/rest-service-storage/how-to-configure-an-mssql-database-storage.md, after:

---
title: MSSQL Database Storage
page_title: Configuring an MSSQL Database Storage
description: "Learn how to Configure an MSSQL Database Storage for the Telerik Reporting REST Service in this Tutorial."
slug: telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-service-storage/how-to-configure-an-mssql-database-storage
tags: how,to,configure,an,mssql,database,storage,tutorial
published: True
position: 1
previous_url: /telerik-reporting-rest-howto-use-mssql-storage,/embedding-reports/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-service-storage/how-to-configure-an-mssql-database-storage
---

# Configuring an MSSQL Database Storage for the Reporting REST Service

This article explains how to configure an MSSQL Database for the Reporting REST Service storage.

1. Ensure a database instance is available for Reporting REST Service storage. This may be a dedicated database or a shared database for both app data and Reporting REST Service storage.

	1. Start the __Telerik Database Cache Configurator__ tool located in the *{Telerik Reporting installation folder}/Tools* folder.
	1. In *Choose database usage* combo-box select the "Configure REST service storage database" option.
	1. In *Choose target backend* combo-box select the "Microsoft SQL Server" option.
	1. In *Specify connection string* text box enter the connection string that references the target database. You can also click the *Build* button and create the connection string using the *Connection properties* form.
	1. Click on the *Create schema* button to start the database schema creation.
	1. A message box should be displayed, confirming that the storage tables are successfully created. Use the connection string specified above when initializing an instance of [MsSqlServerStorage](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Cache.MsSqlServerStorage) in your application.
	1. In case you want to cleanup the storage tables in an existing database, use the button *Clear cache data*.

1. Configure your Telerik Reporting REST Service to use the database storage we just prepared. You may do this in the configuration file of the project as elaborated in the article [restReportService Element]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/configure-the-report-engine/restreportservice-element%}), or when instantiating the [ReportServiceConfiguration](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Services.ReportServiceConfiguration). Here are samples for both scenarios:

	+ Through code when passing [ReportServiceConfiguration](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Services.ReportServiceConfiguration) instance to the REST Service.

		The __ReportSourceResolver__ and __Storage__ configuration settings are required. See the [IReportServiceConfiguration](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Services.IReportServiceConfiguration) interface for more details.

		{{source=CodeSnippets\MvcCS\Controllers\ReportsController.cs region=MSSqlReportsControllerImplementation}}
		{{source=CodeSnippets\MvcVB\Controllers\ReportsController.vb region=MSSqlReportsControllerImplementation}}


	+ Through a configuration file:

		1. You need to pass a [ConfigSectionReportServiceConfiguration](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Services.ConfigSectionReportServiceConfiguration) instance to the REST Service:

			{{source=CodeSnippets\MvcCS\Controllers\ReportsControllerConfigSection.cs region=ReportsControllerConfigSectionImplementation}}
			{{source=CodeSnippets\MvcVB\Controllers\ReportsControllerConfigSection.vb region=ReportsControllerConfigSectionImplementation}}


			The properties from the initialization block would override the values obtained from the configuration file.

		1. Set the corresponding properties values in the REST Service configuration file:

			+ XML-based configuration file:

				````XML
<configuration>
				...
					<Telerik.Reporting>
						<restReportService hostAppId="Application1" workerCount="4" reportSharingTimeout="10" clientSessionTimeout="10" exceptionsVerbosity="detailed">
							<reportResolver provider="type" />
							<storage provider="MSSQLServer">
							<parameters>
								<parameter name="connectionString" value="Data Source=(local)\SQLEXPRESS;Initial Catalog=RestServiceStorage;Integrated Security=SSPI" />
								<parameter name="commandTimeout" value="60" />
							</parameters>
							</storage>
						...
						</restReportService>
					...
					</Telerik.Reporting>
				...
				</configuration>
````


			+ JSON-based configuration file:

				````JSON
"telerikReporting": {
					"restReportService": {
						"hostAppId": "Application1",
						"reportResolver": {
							"provider": "type"
						},
						"storage": {
							"provider": "MSSQLServer",
							"parameters": [
								{
									"name": "connectionString",
									"value": "Data Source=(local)\SQLEXPRESS;Initial Catalog=RestServiceStorage;Integrated Security=SSPI"
								},
								{
									"name": "commandTimeout",
									"value": 60
								}
							]
						}
					},
				...
				}
````

> Since the **Telerik Reporting Q1 2025** release, the MSSQL storage relies on `System.Data.SqlClient` to connect to the provided database in .NET Framework applications, and on `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient` in .NET applications. In previous versions, the `System.Data.SqlClient` data provider was used for each target framework.

## See Also

* [Overview]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-service-storage/overview%})
