knowledge-base/binaryformatter-exception-after-upgrade-to-net5.md, before:

---
title: NET5 projects may throw the error BinaryFormatter serialization and deserialization are disabled within this application
description: BinaryFormatter serialization and deserialization are disabled within this application after upgrade to .NET5
type: troubleshooting
page_title: BinaryFormatter serialization and deserialization are disabled within this application is thrown in .NET5
slug: binaryformatter-exception-after-upgrade-to-net5
position: 
tags: .NET 5.0
ticketid: 1494918
res_type: kb
---

## Environment
<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Progress® Telerik® Reporting</td>
			<td>Up to R3 2020</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>


## Description
The following error: **Error registering the viewer with the service.
An error has occurred.
BinaryFormatter serialization and deserialization are disabled within this application** might be thrown after upgrade to .NET 5 from .NET Core or Blazor Projects.


## Error Message
Error registering the viewer with the service.
An error has occurred.
BinaryFormatter serialization and deserialization are disabled within this application. See https://aka.ms/binaryformatter for more information.


## Solution
In the Telerik Reporting R1 2021 release, the issue is resolved. If you are using a previous version, we strongly recommend upgrading. If that's not possible, 
you can use the suggested workaround below.


## Suggested Workarounds
Add the following lines of code to the `csproj` file:
```
<PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>net5.0</TargetFramework>
<EnableUnsafeBinaryFormatterSerialization>true</EnableUnsafeBinaryFormatterSerialization>
</PropertyGroup>
```

Commit message:

Update adobe-reader-search-in-pdf-not-working.md (#1080)
* Update adobe-reader-search-in-pdf-not-working.md

* Update after-upgrade-html5-viewer-template-is-broken.md

* Update alternate-cell-background-color-by-table-group.md

* Update angular-component-properties-in-viewer-events.md

* Update angular-report-viewer-and-netcore-service.md

* Update angular-report-viewer-in-multiple-tabs.md

* Update applying-conditional-formatting-rule-to-expandable-area.md

* Update attempting-to-get-range-that-intersects-with-an-already-merged-range.md

* Update binaryformatter-exception-after-upgrade-to-net5.md

* Update blazor-wasm-system-drawing-common-not-supported.md

* Update after-upgrade-html5-viewer-template-is-broken.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Dimitar Nikolov <dnikolov@progress.com>

knowledge-base/binaryformatter-exception-after-upgrade-to-net5.md, after:

---
title: BinaryFormatter Serialization and Deserialization Are Disabled
description: "Learn why .NET 5 projects may throw the error 'BinaryFormatter serialization and deserialization are disabled within this application' and how to fix it."
type: troubleshooting
page_title: Error related to disabled BinaryFormatter serialization in .NET 5
slug: binaryformatter-exception-after-upgrade-to-net5
tags: .NET 5.0
ticketid: 1494918
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Progress® Telerik® Reporting</td>
			<td>Up to R3 2020</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

## Description

The following error might be thrown after upgrade to .NET 5 from .NET Core or Blazor Projects.

## Error Message

````
Error registering the viewer with the service.
An error has occurred.
BinaryFormatter serialization and deserialization are disabled within this application. See https://aka.ms/binaryformatter for more information.
````

## Solution

In the [Telerik Reporting R1 2021(15.0.21.120)](https://www.telerik.com/support/whats-new/reporting/release-history/progress-telerik-reporting-r1-2021-15-0-21-120) release, the issue is resolved. If you are using a previous version, we strongly recommend upgrading. If that's not possible, you can use the suggested workaround below.

## Suggested Workarounds

Add the following lines of code to the `csproj` file:

````XML
<PropertyGroup>
	<TargetFramework>net5.0</TargetFramework>
	<EnableUnsafeBinaryFormatterSerialization>true</EnableUnsafeBinaryFormatterSerialization>
</PropertyGroup>
````
