knowledge-base/cannot-show-multicolumn-subreports.md, before:

---
title: Cannot Render Multiple Columns in Sub-Reports
page_title: Cannot Render Multi-Column Reports as Sub-Reports
description: "Learn how to manage multi-column reports in Telerik Reporting."
slug: unable-to-show-multi-column-subreports
tags: telerik, reporting, design, time, cannot, show, multicolumn, subreports
published: True
component:
type: troubleshooting
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Progress® Telerik® Reporting</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>Version</td>
			<td>Q2 2012 and later</td>
		</tr>
	        <tr>
			<td>Report Viewers</td>
			<td>WinForms, WPF, ASP.NET</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

## Description

A multi-column report shows fine in preview, but when used as a sub-report, it shows as a one-column report only.

## Cause

The multi-column functionality is intended to be used only in the main report because all report sections (excluding **Page** sections) are rendered in a column-wise layout.

## Solution  

This issue occurs by design and it is not intended for multi-column reports to be used as sub-reports.

Commit message:

Update changes-on-items-in-report-events-are-not-applied.md (#1040)
* Update changes-on-items-in-report-events-are-not-applied.md

* Update error-handling-in-reports-and-report-viewers.md

* Update export-a-report-from-telerik-report-server-via-dot-net-client.md

* Update how-to-add-interactivity-to-a-report-using-action-event-handlers-in-winforms-report-viewer.md

* Update how-to-add-interactivity-to-a-report-using-action-event-handlers-in-wpf-report-viewer.md

* Update how-to-add-interactivity-to-a-report-using-action-event-handlers-in-wpf-report-viewer.md

* Update how-to-add-interactivity-to-a-report-using-action-event-handlers-with-html5-based-report-viewers.md

* Update how-to-add-interactivity-to-a-report-using-action-event-handlers-in-wpf-report-viewer.md

* Update how-to-add-interactivity-to-a-report-using-action-event-handlers-in-winforms-report-viewer.md

* Update cannot-serialize-sessions-state.md

* Update cannot-show-multicolumn-subreports.md

* Delete MultiColumnReport.zip

* Update how-to-create-multi-column-report---across-the-page-and-then-down.md

* Update error-handling-in-reports-and-report-viewers.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Dimitar Nikolov <dnikolov@progress.com>

knowledge-base/cannot-show-multicolumn-subreports.md, after:

---
title: Cannot Render Multiple Columns in Subreports
page_title: Multi-Column functionality not working in Subreports
description: "Learn why the multi-column layout is not respected by design in the SubReport items in Telerik Reporting."
slug: unable-to-show-multi-column-subreports
tags: telerik, reporting, design, time, cannot, show, multicolumn, subreports
published: True
component: 
type: troubleshooting
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Progress® Telerik® Reporting</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>Version</td>
			<td>Q2 2012 and later</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>Report Viewers</td>
			<td>WinForms, WPF, ASP.NET</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

## Description

A multi-column report shows fine in preview, but when used as a subreport, it shows as a one-column report only.

## Cause

The multi-column functionality is intended to be used only in the main report because all report sections (excluding `Page` sections) are rendered in a column-wise layout.

## Solution

This issue occurs by design and it is not intended for multi-column reports to be used as subreports.

As a workaround, you may try the approach from the KB [How to Create a Multi-Column Report - Across the Page and Then Down]({%slug how-to-create-multi-column-report---across-the-page-and-then-down%}) in the subreport.\

## See Also

[How to Create a Multi-Column Report - Across the Page and Then Down]({%slug how-to-create-multi-column-report---across-the-page-and-then-down%})
