knowledge-base/configure-the-stand-alone-report-designer-sqlite-data-provider.md, before:

---
title: How to configure SQLite ADO.NET Provider for Standalone Report Designer
description: Follow these steps to properly configure the SQLite Datasource provider in the Telerik Reporting Stand-alone Report Designer.
type: how-to
page_title: Configure the Stand-Alone Report Designer SQLite Data Provider
slug: configure-the-stand-alone-report-designer-sqlite-data-provider
tags: standalone,report,designer,sqlite,provider
ticketid: 1455156
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product Version</td>
			<td>12.2.18.1017</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Progress® Telerik® Reporting</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

## Description

Configuring the SQLite ADO.NET Provider for the Stand-alone Report Designer requires a few steps. If one is missed, the DataSource provider will not work in the Report Designer. Follow the below steps to get this working.

## Solutions

### Solution for the old Standalone Report Designer

**Step 1** Download the SQLite installer per your desired version of the `.NET Framework` from the [System.Data.Sqlite](http://system.data.sqlite.org/index.html/doc/trunk/www/downloads.wiki) Downloads page.

**Step 2** Copy the `System.Data.Sqlite.dll` and `SQLite.Interop.dll` assemblies from the System.Data.Sqlite installation directory to the Report Designer installation directory.

- SQLite Installation: `C:\Program Files\System.Data.SQLite\2015\bin`
- Telerik Reporting Installation: `C:\Program Files (x86)\Progress\Telerik Reporting {{site.suiteversion}}\Report Designer`

The Telerik Reporting directory will look like the following:

![sqlite install folder](resources/sqlite_install.png)

**Step 3** Add the DbProvider Factory declaration to the appropriate Stand-alone Report Designer configuration file. `Telerik.ReportDesigner.exe.config` is for 64-bit (x64) and `Telerik.ReportDesigner.x86.exe.config` is for 32-bit (x86).

>note When updating the configuration file, use the version that matches the installed SQLite ADO.NET Provider, i.e., `64-bit (x64)` or `32-bit (x86)`.

````XML
<system.data>
		<DbProviderFactories>
				<remove invariant="System.Data.SQLite" />
				<add name="SQLite Data Provider" invariant="System.Data.SQLite" description=".NET Framework Data Provider for SQLite"
							type="System.Data.SQLite.SQLiteFactory, System.Data.SQLite, Version=1.0.117.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=db937bc2d44ff139" />
		</DbProviderFactories>
</system.data>
````

**Step 4** Install the [SQLite/SQLServer Compact Toolbox](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ErikEJ.SQLServerCompactSQLiteToolbox) extension in visual studio. This will give you a similar experience to using Access.

### Solution for the new .NET Standalone Report Designer

>note The .NET Standalone Report Designer was released with the 16.2.22.914 version (R3 2022 release).

**Step 1** Download the SQLite Binaries built for `.NET Standard 2.0` or `.NET Standard 2.1` from the [System.Data.Sqlite](http://system.data.sqlite.org/index.html/doc/trunk/www/downloads.wiki) Downloads page.

**Step 2** Unpackage the zip with the binaries and copy the `System.Data.Sqlite.dll` file to the .NET Report Designer installation directory.

**Step 3** Download SQLite binaries built for `.NET Framework.4.X` from the [System.Data.Sqlite](http://system.data.sqlite.org/index.html/doc/trunk/www/downloads.wiki) page, for example [sqlite-netFx40-binary-x64-2010-1.0.117.0.zip](https://system.data.sqlite.org/downloads/1.0.117.0/sqlite-netFx40-binary-x64-2010-1.0.117.0.zip). Then unpackage the archive and copy the `SQLite.Interop.dll` assembly to the . NET Report Designer installation directory.

![sqlite net designer install folder](resources/sqlite_net_designer_install.png)

The .NET 6 Standalone Report Designer will automatically locate and load the SQLite assemblies, thus the data provider will appear in the SqlDataSource wizard dropdown. There is no need to edit the configuration of the .NET Report Designer - [Differences between the .NET and .NET Framework designers' functionality]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/overview%}#differences-between-the-net-and-net-framework-designers-functionality)

## See Also

* [System.Data.Sqlite](http://system.data.sqlite.org/index.html/doc/trunk/www/downloads.wiki)
* [SQLite/SQLServer Compact Toolbox](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ErikEJ.SQLServerCompactSQLiteToolbox)
* [How-To use SQLite with Telerik Reporting Standalone Report Designer](https://telerikhelper.net/2016/12/29/how-to-use-sqlite-with-telerik-reporting-standalone-report-designer/)

Commit message:

sql data providers moved into one section in the docs (#1504)
* add articles for mysql, npgsql and odp.net providers

* add articles for mysql, npgsql and odp.net providers

* add microsoft sqlclient and sqlite articles to using data providers section

* small corrections and references in other articles

* Update using-microsoft-data-sqlclient-data-proivder.md

* Update using-mysql-data-provider.md

* Update using-npgsql-data-provider.md

* Update using-odp-net-data-provider.md

* Update using-sqlite-data-provider.md

* Update configuring-postgres-with-npgsql.md

* Update using-microsoft-data-sqlclient-data-proivder.md

* Update using-mysql-data-provider.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Todor Arabadzhiev <todor.arabadzhiev@progress.com>

knowledge-base/configure-the-stand-alone-report-designer-sqlite-data-provider.md, after:

---
title: How to configure SQLite ADO.NET Provider for Standalone Report Designer
description: Follow these steps to properly configure the SQLite Datasource provider in the Telerik Reporting Stand-alone Report Designer.
type: how-to
page_title: Configure the Stand-Alone Report Designer SQLite Data Provider
slug: configure-the-stand-alone-report-designer-sqlite-data-provider
tags: standalone,report,designer,sqlite,provider
ticketid: 1455156
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product Version</td>
			<td>12.2.18.1017</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Progress® Telerik® Reporting</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

## Description

> Visit the updated [Integrating the SQLite Data Provider]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/sqldatasource-component/using-data-providers/using-sqlite-data-provider%}) article for a how-to on connecting to SQLite Databases.

Configuring the SQLite ADO.NET Provider for the Stand-alone Report Designer requires a few steps. If one is missed, the DataSource provider will not work in the Report Designer. Follow the below steps to get this working.

## Solutions

### Solution for the old Standalone Report Designer

**Step 1** Download the SQLite installer per your desired version of the `.NET Framework` from the [System.Data.Sqlite](http://system.data.sqlite.org/index.html/doc/trunk/www/downloads.wiki) Downloads page.

**Step 2** Copy the `System.Data.Sqlite.dll` and `SQLite.Interop.dll` assemblies from the System.Data.Sqlite installation directory to the Report Designer installation directory.

- SQLite Installation: `C:\Program Files\System.Data.SQLite\2015\bin`
- Telerik Reporting Installation: `C:\Program Files (x86)\Progress\Telerik Reporting {{site.suiteversion}}\Report Designer`

The Telerik Reporting directory will look like the following:

![sqlite install folder](resources/sqlite_install.png)

**Step 3** Add the DbProvider Factory declaration to the appropriate Stand-alone Report Designer configuration file. `Telerik.ReportDesigner.exe.config` is for 64-bit (x64) and `Telerik.ReportDesigner.x86.exe.config` is for 32-bit (x86).

>note When updating the configuration file, use the version that matches the installed SQLite ADO.NET Provider, i.e., `64-bit (x64)` or `32-bit (x86)`.

````XML
<system.data>
		<DbProviderFactories>
				<remove invariant="System.Data.SQLite" />
				<add name="SQLite Data Provider" invariant="System.Data.SQLite" description=".NET Framework Data Provider for SQLite"
							type="System.Data.SQLite.SQLiteFactory, System.Data.SQLite, Version=1.0.117.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=db937bc2d44ff139" />
		</DbProviderFactories>
</system.data>
````

**Step 4** Install the [SQLite/SQLServer Compact Toolbox](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ErikEJ.SQLServerCompactSQLiteToolbox) extension in visual studio. This will give you a similar experience to using Access.

### Solution for the new .NET Standalone Report Designer

>note The .NET Standalone Report Designer was released with the 16.2.22.914 version (R3 2022 release).

**Step 1** Download the SQLite Binaries built for `.NET Standard 2.0` or `.NET Standard 2.1` from the [System.Data.Sqlite](http://system.data.sqlite.org/index.html/doc/trunk/www/downloads.wiki) Downloads page.

**Step 2** Unpackage the zip with the binaries and copy the `System.Data.Sqlite.dll` file to the .NET Report Designer installation directory.

**Step 3** Download SQLite binaries built for `.NET Framework.4.X` from the [System.Data.Sqlite](http://system.data.sqlite.org/index.html/doc/trunk/www/downloads.wiki) page, for example [sqlite-netFx40-binary-x64-2010-1.0.117.0.zip](https://system.data.sqlite.org/downloads/1.0.117.0/sqlite-netFx40-binary-x64-2010-1.0.117.0.zip). Then unpackage the archive and copy the `SQLite.Interop.dll` assembly to the . NET Report Designer installation directory.

![sqlite net designer install folder](resources/sqlite_net_designer_install.png)

The .NET 6 Standalone Report Designer will automatically locate and load the SQLite assemblies, thus the data provider will appear in the SqlDataSource wizard dropdown. There is no need to edit the configuration of the .NET Report Designer - [Differences between the .NET and .NET Framework designers' functionality]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/overview%}#differences-between-the-net-and-net-framework-designers-functionality)

## See Also

* [System.Data.Sqlite](http://system.data.sqlite.org/index.html/doc/trunk/www/downloads.wiki)
* [SQLite/SQLServer Compact Toolbox](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ErikEJ.SQLServerCompactSQLiteToolbox)
* [How-To use SQLite with Telerik Reporting Standalone Report Designer](https://telerikhelper.net/2016/12/29/how-to-use-sqlite-with-telerik-reporting-standalone-report-designer/)
