knowledge-base/exporting-reports-excel-not-working-after-upgrade.md, before:

---
title: Exporting Reports to MS Excel and Word Not Working After Upgrade
description: This article provides guidance on resolving the issue where Report Viewers fail to export a report to OpenXML formats after upgrading to the latest DocumentFormat.OpenXml version.
type: troubleshooting
page_title: Exporting Reports to MS Excel and Word Not Working After Upgrade | Telerik Reporting
slug: exporting-reports-excel-not-working-after-upgrade
tags: exporting, reports, Excel, patch, upgrade, Word, Telerik Reporting
res_type: kb
---
# Environment
| Product | 
|---------|
| Progress Telerik Reporting | 

# Description

After upgrading to the latest DocumentFormat.OpenXml version, Telerik Reporting application fails to export a report to MS OpenXML formats like XLSX and DOCX. This issue started after upgrading to the new version and rolling back to the previous version confirmed the problem. The error message displayed when attempting to export to OpenXML is as follows:

````
CSharp.Net7.Html5IntegrationDemo Error: 0 : System.TypeInitializationException: The type initializer for 'Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.DocumentHelper' threw an exception.
 ---> System.TypeLoadException: Could not load type 'DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Packaging.ImagePartType' from assembly 'Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.2.7.2, Version=17.2.23.1114, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=a9d7983dfcc261be' due to value type mismatch.
   at Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.DocumentHelper..cctor()
   --- End of inner exception stack trace ---
   at Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.DocumentHelper.CreateMainPart(WordprocessingDocument package)
   at Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.DocumentBuilder.CreateMainPart()
   at Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.DocumentBuilder.CreateBodyLayout()
   at Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.ReportWriter.WriteDocument(DocumentBuilder documentBuilder, LayoutElement layoutElement)
   at Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.WordprocessingWriter.WriteEndElement(LayoutElement source, ElementPageInfo pageInfo)
   at Telerik.Reporting.BaseRendering.PageHandler.Telerik.Reporting.Paging.IPageHandler.EndElement(LayoutElement element, ElementPageInfo info)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageEndElement.OutputToPage(IPageHandler handler)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageElementsLayer.OutputToPage(IPageHandler handler)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageContent.Output(IPageHandler handler)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageCompositionBase.OutputPageContent(Stopwatch stopwatchOutputContent, PageContent pageContent)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageCompositionBase.<>c__DisplayClass124_0.<CreatePageContentOutputTask>b__0()
An error has occurred while rendering the report: System.OperationCanceledException: The operation was canceled.
   at System.Threading.CancellationToken.ThrowOperationCanceledException()
   at System.Threading.ManualResetEventSlim.Wait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.SpinThenBlockingWait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.InternalWaitCore(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.Wait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.Wait(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageCompositionBase.SeparateThreadOutputBehavior.Finish()
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageCompositionBase.CreatePages()
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PagerBase.Telerik.Reporting.Paging.IPager.CreatePages(IPageHandler handler, LayoutElement root)
   at Telerik.Reporting.BaseRendering.RenderingExtensionBase.Render(LayoutElement root, Hashtable renderingContext, Hashtable deviceInfo, CreateStream createStreamCallback, EvaluateHeaderFooterExpressions evalHeaderFooterCallback, PageSettings pageSettings)
*** Render Report #0 "ReportCatalog" DONE in 00:00:00.2183346 ***

CSharp.Net7.Html5IntegrationDemo Error: 0 : An error occurred while rendering the report in separate thread: System.OperationCanceledException: The operation was canceled.
   at System.Threading.CancellationToken.ThrowOperationCanceledException()
   at System.Threading.ManualResetEventSlim.Wait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.SpinThenBlockingWait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.InternalWaitCore(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.Wait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.Wait(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageCompositionBase.SeparateThreadOutputBehavior.Finish()
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageCompositionBase.CreatePages()
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PagerBase.Telerik.Reporting.Paging.IPager.CreatePages(IPageHandler handler, LayoutElement root)
   at Telerik.Reporting.BaseRendering.RenderingExtensionBase.Render(LayoutElement root, Hashtable renderingContext, Hashtable deviceInfo, CreateStream createStreamCallback, EvaluateHeaderFooterExpressions evalHeaderFooterCallback, PageSettings pageSettings)
   at Telerik.Reporting.BaseRendering.RenderingExtensionBase.Render(Report report, Hashtable renderingContext, Hashtable deviceInfo, CreateStream createStreamCallback, EvaluateHeaderFooterExpressions evalHeaderFooterCallback)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Processing.ReportProcessor.RenderCore(ExtensionInfo extensionInfo, IList`1 processingReports, Hashtable deviceInfo, IRenderingContext renderingContext, CreateStream createStreamCallback)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Processing.ReportProcessor.RenderCore(String format, IList`1 reports, Hashtable deviceInfo, IRenderingContext renderingContext, CreateStream createStreamCallback)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Services.Engine.ReportRenderer.Render(ReportRendererArgs args)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Services.Engine.Rendering.RenderWithCulture(ReportRendererArgs args)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Services.Engine.Rendering.ThreadFunc(Object o)
````

# Solution

To resolve this issue, you need to ensure that the 'DocumentFormat.OpenXml' version referenced in the project is 2.7.2 or higher, but lower than 3.0.0.

Commit message:

docs: OpenXml 3.0.1 changes
Added info for new .dll we start distributing with 2024 Q1

knowledge-base/exporting-reports-excel-not-working-after-upgrade.md, after:

---
title: Exporting Reports to MS Excel and Word Not Working After Upgrade
description: This article provides guidance on resolving the issue where Report Viewers fail to export a report to OpenXML formats after upgrading to the latest DocumentFormat.OpenXml version.
type: troubleshooting
page_title: Exporting Reports to MS Excel and Word Not Working After Upgrade | Telerik Reporting
slug: exporting-reports-excel-not-working-after-upgrade
tags: exporting, reports, Excel, patch, upgrade, Word, Telerik Reporting
res_type: kb
---
# Environment
| Product | 
|---------|
| Progress Telerik Reporting | 

# Description

After upgrading to the latest DocumentFormat.OpenXml version, Telerik Reporting application fails to export a report to MS OpenXML formats like XLSX and DOCX. This issue started after upgrading to the new version and rolling back to the previous version confirmed the problem. The error message displayed when attempting to export to OpenXML is as follows:

````
CSharp.Net7.Html5IntegrationDemo Error: 0 : System.TypeInitializationException: The type initializer for 'Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.DocumentHelper' threw an exception.
 ---> System.TypeLoadException: Could not load type 'DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Packaging.ImagePartType' from assembly 'Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.2.7.2, Version=17.2.23.1114, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=a9d7983dfcc261be' due to value type mismatch.
   at Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.DocumentHelper..cctor()
   --- End of inner exception stack trace ---
   at Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.DocumentHelper.CreateMainPart(WordprocessingDocument package)
   at Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.DocumentBuilder.CreateMainPart()
   at Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.DocumentBuilder.CreateBodyLayout()
   at Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.ReportWriter.WriteDocument(DocumentBuilder documentBuilder, LayoutElement layoutElement)
   at Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.Wordprocessing.WordprocessingWriter.WriteEndElement(LayoutElement source, ElementPageInfo pageInfo)
   at Telerik.Reporting.BaseRendering.PageHandler.Telerik.Reporting.Paging.IPageHandler.EndElement(LayoutElement element, ElementPageInfo info)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageEndElement.OutputToPage(IPageHandler handler)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageElementsLayer.OutputToPage(IPageHandler handler)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageContent.Output(IPageHandler handler)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageCompositionBase.OutputPageContent(Stopwatch stopwatchOutputContent, PageContent pageContent)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageCompositionBase.<>c__DisplayClass124_0.<CreatePageContentOutputTask>b__0()
An error has occurred while rendering the report: System.OperationCanceledException: The operation was canceled.
   at System.Threading.CancellationToken.ThrowOperationCanceledException()
   at System.Threading.ManualResetEventSlim.Wait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.SpinThenBlockingWait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.InternalWaitCore(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.Wait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.Wait(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageCompositionBase.SeparateThreadOutputBehavior.Finish()
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageCompositionBase.CreatePages()
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PagerBase.Telerik.Reporting.Paging.IPager.CreatePages(IPageHandler handler, LayoutElement root)
   at Telerik.Reporting.BaseRendering.RenderingExtensionBase.Render(LayoutElement root, Hashtable renderingContext, Hashtable deviceInfo, CreateStream createStreamCallback, EvaluateHeaderFooterExpressions evalHeaderFooterCallback, PageSettings pageSettings)
*** Render Report #0 "ReportCatalog" DONE in 00:00:00.2183346 ***

CSharp.Net7.Html5IntegrationDemo Error: 0 : An error occurred while rendering the report in separate thread: System.OperationCanceledException: The operation was canceled.
   at System.Threading.CancellationToken.ThrowOperationCanceledException()
   at System.Threading.ManualResetEventSlim.Wait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.SpinThenBlockingWait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.InternalWaitCore(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.Wait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.Wait(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageCompositionBase.SeparateThreadOutputBehavior.Finish()
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PageCompositionBase.CreatePages()
   at Telerik.Reporting.Paging.PagerBase.Telerik.Reporting.Paging.IPager.CreatePages(IPageHandler handler, LayoutElement root)
   at Telerik.Reporting.BaseRendering.RenderingExtensionBase.Render(LayoutElement root, Hashtable renderingContext, Hashtable deviceInfo, CreateStream createStreamCallback, EvaluateHeaderFooterExpressions evalHeaderFooterCallback, PageSettings pageSettings)
   at Telerik.Reporting.BaseRendering.RenderingExtensionBase.Render(Report report, Hashtable renderingContext, Hashtable deviceInfo, CreateStream createStreamCallback, EvaluateHeaderFooterExpressions evalHeaderFooterCallback)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Processing.ReportProcessor.RenderCore(ExtensionInfo extensionInfo, IList`1 processingReports, Hashtable deviceInfo, IRenderingContext renderingContext, CreateStream createStreamCallback)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Processing.ReportProcessor.RenderCore(String format, IList`1 reports, Hashtable deviceInfo, IRenderingContext renderingContext, CreateStream createStreamCallback)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Services.Engine.ReportRenderer.Render(ReportRendererArgs args)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Services.Engine.Rendering.RenderWithCulture(ReportRendererArgs args)
   at Telerik.Reporting.Services.Engine.Rendering.ThreadFunc(Object o)
````

# Solution

- If you are using version of Telerik Reporting prior to 2024 Q1 (18.0.24.130), you need to ensure that the 'DocumentFormat.OpenXml' version referenced in the project is 2.7.2 or higher, but lower than 3.0.0.
- If you are using version of Telerik Reporting version 18.0.24.130 or newer, please reference 'Telerik.Reporting.OpenXmlRendering.3.0.1' which works with 'DocumentFormat.OpenXml' version 3.0.1 or newer.
