knowledge-base/how-to-remove-trial-message.md, before:

---
title: How to Upgrade Trial to Licensed Version
description: This tutorial explains in detail how to upgrade your Telerik trial to a licensed version of Telerik Reporting
type: how-to
page_title: How to Remove the Trial Message After the License is Purchased
slug: how-to-remove-trial-message
tags: trial, message, license, report, reporting
ticketid: 1459034
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

| Version | Product |  
| ---- | ---- |
| Valid until Q2 2025 | Telerik Reporting | 

## Description

This tutorial explains in detail how to upgrade your Telerik [Trial]({%slug telerikreporting/licensing%}) to a Licensed version of [Telerik Reporting](https://www.telerik.com/account/product-download?product=REPORTING).

>caution This approach is valid for versions [before Q2 2025]({%slug telerikreporting/licensing%}). For later versions, it is just necessary to update the [license key]({%slug setting-up-license-key%}).

Let's start with having a trial version installed on your machine and a project that uses the trial version. Access to the Trial version of product files in the Downloads section of your Telerik account: 

![Downloads Trial](images/downloads-section-trial-license.png)  

The difference between the developer and trial versions of the assemblies/ NuGet packages is that the trial version adds a copyright message to the produced reports:

![Report Trial Message](images/report-trial-message.png)  

## Solution

Once you purchase a Telerik license, you will have access to the **Purchase License** Type in your Telerik account:

![Downloads License Version](images/downloads-section-purchase-license.png)   

## Upgrade the Trial Assemblies

1. Download the DEV .msi file for the Purchase version: [How to download Telerik Reporting installer]({%slug telerikreporting/installation%}#msi-installation).
1. Uninstall the already installed Trial version, e.g. from the Windows Control Panel >> Programs and Features.
1. Install the downloaded .msi file in step 1.
1. Update the references in your project with the assemblies from the licensed installation. It is necessary to delete the old trial assemblies first:

	![Remove Assembly](images/remove-assembly.png)   

1. Then, add the licensed ones:

	![Add Assembly](images/add-assembly.png)    

	Right-clicking on the assembly to show its Properties allows you to check if it is a **TRIAL** assembly:

	![Trial Assembly](images/trial-assembly.png)    

1. Rebuild your project, close Visual Studio, and open it again to make sure that no references are kept in the memory by Visual Studio.

For additional details, you may also check the [Upgrading Trial to Purchase]({%slug telerikreporting/licensing%}#upgrading-from-trial-to-developer) article section.

## Upgrade the Trial NuGet packages

1. Open the **NuGet Package Manager**, e.g. select the Manage NuGet Packages... option

	![Open NuGet Package Manager](images/open-nuget-package-manager.png) 

1. Uninstall any Trial Telerik NuGet packages:

	![Uninstall Trial Package](images/uninstall-trial-package.png) 

1. Install the respective Purchase version of the NuGet packages, without the word "Trial" in its name:

	![Install Licensed Package](images/install-dev-package.png)


## See Also

* [Telerik Reporting Licensing before 2025]({%slug telerikreporting/licensing%})

Commit message:

Move the old licensing to the KB section
Recommended by Dancho to move the "Before 2025" article as a KB resource to avoid confusion.

knowledge-base/how-to-remove-trial-message.md, after:

---
title: How to Upgrade Trial to Licensed Version
description: This tutorial explains in detail how to upgrade your Telerik trial to a licensed version of Telerik Reporting
type: how-to
page_title: How to Remove the Trial Message After the License is Purchased
slug: how-to-remove-trial-message
tags: trial, message, license, report, reporting
ticketid: 1459034
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

| Version | Product |  
| ---- | ---- |
| Valid until Q2 2025 | Telerik Reporting | 

## Description

This tutorial explains in detail how to upgrade your Telerik [Trial]({%slug telerikreporting/licensing%}) to a Licensed version of [Telerik Reporting](https://www.telerik.com/account/product-download?product=REPORTING).

>caution This approach is valid for versions [before Q2 2025]({%slug telerikreporting/licensing%}). After launching the [new licensing mechanism](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/license-key-files-telerik-kendo-ui-products-2025-update), the activation is performed through a [license key]({%slug setting-up-license-key%}) (trial or commercial). Upgrading from a Trial to Developer (or commercial) version requires only updating the license key without the necessity of reinstalling the respective Telerik product.

Let's start with having a trial version installed on your machine and a project that uses the trial version. Access to the Trial version of product files in the Downloads section of your Telerik account: 

![Downloads Trial](images/downloads-section-trial-license.png)  

The difference between the developer and trial versions of the assemblies/ NuGet packages is that the trial version adds a copyright message to the produced reports:

![Report Trial Message](images/report-trial-message.png)  

## Solution

Once you purchase a Telerik license, you will have access to the **Purchase License** Type in your Telerik account:

![Downloads License Version](images/downloads-section-purchase-license.png)   

## Upgrade the Trial Assemblies

1. Download the DEV .msi file for the Purchase version: [How to download Telerik Reporting installer]({%slug telerikreporting/installation%}#msi-installation).
1. Uninstall the already installed Trial version, e.g. from the Windows Control Panel >> Programs and Features.
1. Install the downloaded .msi file in step 1.
1. Update the references in your project with the assemblies from the licensed installation. It is necessary to delete the old trial assemblies first:

	![Remove Assembly](images/remove-assembly.png)   

1. Then, add the licensed ones:

	![Add Assembly](images/add-assembly.png)    

	Right-clicking on the assembly to show its Properties allows you to check if it is a **TRIAL** assembly:

	![Trial Assembly](images/trial-assembly.png)    

1. Rebuild your project, close Visual Studio, and open it again to make sure that no references are kept in the memory by Visual Studio.

For additional details, you may also check the [Upgrading Trial to Purchase]({%slug telerikreporting/licensing%}#upgrading-from-trial-to-developer) article section.

## Upgrade the Trial NuGet packages

1. Open the **NuGet Package Manager**, e.g. select the Manage NuGet Packages... option

	![Open NuGet Package Manager](images/open-nuget-package-manager.png) 

1. Uninstall any Trial Telerik NuGet packages:

	![Uninstall Trial Package](images/uninstall-trial-package.png) 

1. Install the respective Purchase version of the NuGet packages, without the word "Trial" in its name:

	![Install Licensed Package](images/install-dev-package.png)


## See Also

* [Telerik Reporting Licensing before 2025]({%slug telerikreporting/licensing%})
