knowledge-base/integrate-sqlite-databases-telerik-web-report-designer.md, before:

---
title: Integrating SQLite Databases with Telerik Web Report Designer
description: Learn how to set up and use SQLite databases with the Telerik Web Report Designer in a Blazor project.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Use SQLite Databases with Telerik Web Report Designer in Blazor Projects
slug: integrate-sqlite-databases-telerik-web-report-designer
tags: progress® telerik® reporting, web report designer, sqlite, database, blazor, integration, system.data.sqlite
res_type: kb
ticketid: 1655822
---

## Environment

| Version | Product | Author | 
| --- | --- | ---- | 
| | Telerik Web Report Designer |[Desislava Yordanova](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/author/desislava-yordanova)| 

## Description

When attempting to use the [Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%}) with an SQLite database in a Blazor or ASP.NET Core project, the SQLite option is available in the SqlDataSource dropdown list of providers. However, attempting to connect to a local SQLite database file results in an error.

![SQLiteFactory Error](images/sqlite-web-report-designer-error.png)   

This KB article also answers the following questions:

- How to connect the Telerik Web Report Designer to an SQLite database?
- What steps are needed to resolve the `System.Data.SQLite.SQLiteFactory` error in Telerik Reporting?
- How to set up SQLite as a data source in the Telerik Web Report Designer?

## Error Message

`Cannot load type for DbProviderTypeName 'System.Data.SQLite.SQLiteFactory'.`

## Solution

To successfully integrate an SQLite database with the Telerik Web Report Designer in a Blazor or ASP.NET Core project, follow these steps:

1. Ensure the [System.Data.SQLite NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Data.SQLite/) is installed in your project. This package is necessary for the Telerik Reporting to interface with SQLite databases.

    ![System.Data.SQLite NuGet](images/sqlite-web-report-designer-step-1.png)  

1. Place your SQLite database file (e.g., `northwind.db`) in the main folder of your project. This location makes it easier to reference the database in your connection strings.

    ![SQLite database](images/sqlite-web-report-designer-step-2.png)

    You may use any other SQLite database file with a proper connection string configured in the next step.

1. Use a sample connection string formatted as follows to test the data connection: 

   `Data Source=northwind.db;Version=3;FailIfMissing=True;`
    
    This connection string assumes the database file is named `northwind.db` and is located in the root directory of your project.

Following these steps should allow the Web Report Designer to successfully connect to and use the SQLite database without encountering the `System.Data.SQLite.SQLiteFactory` error.

![Connected Successfully](images/sqlite-web-report-designer-step-3.png)   

## Notes

- It's important to verify the version compatibility of the System.Data.SQLite package with your project's .NET version.
- Ensure the SQLite database file is accessible to the project, considering any necessary permissions or path adjustments.

## See Also

- [Introduction to Telerik Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%})
- [System.Data.SQLite NuGet Package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Data.SQLite/)
- [How to register a DbProviderFactory in a .NET Core project]({%slug how-to-register-db-provider-factory-in-net-core-project%})
- [How to configure SQLite ADO.NET Provider for Stand-alone Report Designer]({%slug configure-the-stand-alone-report-designer-sqlite-data-provider%})

Commit message:

sql data providers moved into one section in the docs (#1504)
* add articles for mysql, npgsql and odp.net providers

* add articles for mysql, npgsql and odp.net providers

* add microsoft sqlclient and sqlite articles to using data providers section

* small corrections and references in other articles

* Update using-microsoft-data-sqlclient-data-proivder.md

* Update using-mysql-data-provider.md

* Update using-npgsql-data-provider.md

* Update using-odp-net-data-provider.md

* Update using-sqlite-data-provider.md

* Update configuring-postgres-with-npgsql.md

* Update using-microsoft-data-sqlclient-data-proivder.md

* Update using-mysql-data-provider.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Todor Arabadzhiev <todor.arabadzhiev@progress.com>

knowledge-base/integrate-sqlite-databases-telerik-web-report-designer.md, after:

---
title: Integrating SQLite Databases with Telerik Web Report Designer
description: Learn how to set up and use SQLite databases with the Telerik Web Report Designer in a Blazor project.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Use SQLite Databases with Telerik Web Report Designer in Blazor Projects
slug: integrate-sqlite-databases-telerik-web-report-designer
tags: progress® telerik® reporting, web report designer, sqlite, database, blazor, integration, system.data.sqlite
res_type: kb
ticketid: 1655822
---

## Environment

| Version | Product | Author | 
| --- | --- | ---- | 
| | Telerik Web Report Designer |[Desislava Yordanova](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/author/desislava-yordanova)| 

## Description

> Visit the updated [Integrating the SQLite Data Provider]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/sqldatasource-component/using-data-providers/using-sqlite-data-provider%}) article for a how-to on connecting to SQLite Databases.

When attempting to use the [Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%}) with an SQLite database in a Blazor or ASP.NET Core project, the SQLite option is available in the SqlDataSource dropdown list of providers. However, attempting to connect to a local SQLite database file results in an error.

![SQLiteFactory Error](images/sqlite-web-report-designer-error.png)   

This KB article also answers the following questions:

- How to connect the Telerik Web Report Designer to an SQLite database?
- What steps are needed to resolve the `System.Data.SQLite.SQLiteFactory` error in Telerik Reporting?
- How to set up SQLite as a data source in the Telerik Web Report Designer?

## Error Message

`Cannot load type for DbProviderTypeName 'System.Data.SQLite.SQLiteFactory'.`

## Solution

To successfully integrate an SQLite database with the Telerik Web Report Designer in a Blazor or ASP.NET Core project, follow these steps:

1. Ensure the [System.Data.SQLite NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Data.SQLite/) is installed in your project. This package is necessary for the Telerik Reporting to interface with SQLite databases.

    ![System.Data.SQLite NuGet](images/sqlite-web-report-designer-step-1.png)  

1. Place your SQLite database file (e.g., `northwind.db`) in the main folder of your project. This location makes it easier to reference the database in your connection strings.

    ![SQLite database](images/sqlite-web-report-designer-step-2.png)

    You may use any other SQLite database file with a proper connection string configured in the next step.

1. Use a sample connection string formatted as follows to test the data connection: 

   `Data Source=northwind.db;Version=3;FailIfMissing=True;`
    
    This connection string assumes the database file is named `northwind.db` and is located in the root directory of your project.

Following these steps should allow the Web Report Designer to successfully connect to and use the SQLite database without encountering the `System.Data.SQLite.SQLiteFactory` error.

![Connected Successfully](images/sqlite-web-report-designer-step-3.png)   

## Notes

- It's important to verify the version compatibility of the System.Data.SQLite package with your project's .NET version.
- Ensure the SQLite database file is accessible to the project, considering any necessary permissions or path adjustments.

## See Also

- [Introduction to Telerik Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%})
- [System.Data.SQLite NuGet Package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Data.SQLite/)
- [How to register a DbProviderFactory in a .NET Core project]({%slug how-to-register-db-provider-factory-in-net-core-project%})
- [How to configure SQLite ADO.NET Provider for Stand-alone Report Designer]({%slug configure-the-stand-alone-report-designer-sqlite-data-provider%})
