knowledge-base/latest-internal-builds.md, before:

---
title: Latest Internal Builds
description: This article explains more about the Latest Internal Builds and what is their purpose.
type: troubleshooting
page_title: Latest Internal Builds
slug: latest-internal-builds
position: 
tags: 
ticketid:
res_type: kb
---

## Environment
<table>
    <tbody>
	    <tr>
	    	<td>Product</td>
	    	<td>Progress® Telerik® Reporting</td>
	    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>


## What is LIB?
The Latest Internal Build (LIB) or а nightly build is a distribution of the Telerik Reporting assemblies, built against the latest development environment.

It contains all the newest bug fixes.

## What is the Purpose?
The purpose of the LIB is to allow the users to test the latest bug fixes. So, if you have experienced any problem with the current official distributions there is a possibility that the issue has already been addressed in the latest internal build.

## How to obtain the LIB?
Go to [Downloads for Progress® Telerik® Reporting](https://www.telerik.com/account/product-download?product=REPORTING) page, click on Internal Builds and look for the .msi containing the LIB:

```
Telerik_Reporting_VERSION_TRIAL.msi
Telerik_Reporting_VERSION_DEV.msi
```

![Latest Internal Build Download page](resources/download-lib.png)
  
## Is the LIB suitable for Production?
The Latest Internal Builds are intended to be used for development purposes only and they are not recommended for production purposes as these distributions have not gone through the complete QA process.

Commit message:

Update implement-database-definition-storage-efcore.md (#1048)
* Update implement-database-definition-storage-efcore.md

* Update installer-fails.md

* Update how-to-validate-report-parameters-on-the-client.md

* Update installer-fails.md

* Update latest-internal-builds.md

* Update map-create-with-custom-polygons.md

* Update migrate-an-existing-asp-net-core-project-from-full-dotnet-framework-4-6-to-dotnet-core-2-2.md

* Update missing-docx-xlsx-pptx-xps-export-options.md

* Update modify-exported-report-document-before-serving-it-to-the-viewer-client.md

* Update modifying-or-creating-a-report-at-run-time.md

knowledge-base/latest-internal-builds.md, after:

---
title: Latest Internal Builds
description: "Learn more about the Latest Internal Builds, what is their purpose in Telerik Reporting and how to download and use them."
type: troubleshooting
page_title: Latest Internal Builds Explained
slug: latest-internal-builds
tags: 
res_type: kb
---

## Environment
<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Progress® Telerik® Reporting</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>


## What is LIB?

The Latest Internal Build (LIB) or а nightly build is a distribution of the Telerik Reporting assemblies, built against the latest development environment.

It contains all the newest bug fixes.

## What is the Purpose of LIB?

The purpose of the LIB is to allow the users to test the latest bug fixes. So, if you have experienced any problem with the current official distributions there is a possibility that the issue has already been addressed in the latest internal build.

## How to obtain the LIB?

Go to [Downloads for Progress® Telerik® Reporting](https://www.telerik.com/account/product-download?product=REPORTING) page, click on Internal Builds and look for the `.msi` containing the LIB:

`Telerik_Reporting_{VERSION}_TRIAL.msi`

or

`Telerik_Reporting_{VERSION}_DEV.msi`

![Latest Internal Build Download page for Telerik Reporting with Purchase version 13.1.19.618 selected](resources/download-lib.png)

## Is the LIB suitable for Production?

The Latest Internal Builds are intended to be used for development purposes only and they are not recommended for production purposes as these distributions have not gone through the complete QA process.
