knowledge-base/operation-could-destabilize-the-runtime-exception-occurs-when-running-on-windows-azure.md, before:

---
title: Operation could destabilize the runtime exception occurs when running on Windows Azure
description: Operation could destabilize the runtime exception is thrown when running on Windows Azure.
type: troubleshooting
page_title: Operation could destabilize the runtime exception fired when running on Windows Azure
slug: operation-could-destabilize-the-runtime-exception-occurs-when-running-on-windows-azure
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
	<tr>
		<td>Product</td>
		<td>Progress® Telerik® Reporting</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Viewer</td>
		<td>All</td>
	</tr>
  	<tr>
		<td>Environment</td>
		<td>Windows Azure</td>
	</tr>
</table>

## Error Message

```
Internal Server Error:  
Operation could destabilize the runtime.
```

## Cause

This problem occurs when you have published the application with **IntelliTrace** enabled.

## Description

 After publishing to Windows Azure, instead of returning the rendered document, Telerik Reporting WebAPI REST service throws the described error.   

## Solution

In order Telerik Reporting WebAPI REST service to function correctly you have to re-deploy with the IntelliTrace feature turned **off**.  
   
## See Also

[Debugging a Published Cloud Service with IntelliTrace and Visual Studio.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/azure/vs-azure-tools-intellitrace-debug-published-cloud-services?view=vs-2019)

Commit message:

Update preview-reports-using-rest-service-deployed-in-azure.md (#999)
* Update preview-reports-using-rest-service-deployed-in-azure.md

* Update preview-reports-using-rest-service-deployed-in-azure.md

* Update preview-reports-using-rest-service-deployed-in-azure.md

* Update unable-to-print-reports-from-azure-environment.md

* Update preview-reports-using-rest-service-deployed-in-azure.md

* Update webrole-starts-cycling-after-deploying-to-windows-azure.md

* Update operation-could-destabilize-the-runtime-exception-occurs-when-running-on-windows-azure.md

* Create azure-reporting-problems.md

* Update font-is-incorrect-on-first-render-azure.md

* Update preview-reports-using-rest-service-deployed-in-azure.md

* Update sql-data-source-cannot-connect-on-azure.md

* Update unable-to-print-reports-from-azure-environment.md

* Update outofmemoryexception-on-exporting-or-printing-telerik-report-from-azure-webapps.md

* Update webrole-starts-cycling-after-deploying-to-windows-azure.md

* Update operation-could-destabilize-the-runtime-exception-occurs-when-running-on-windows-azure.md

knowledge-base/operation-could-destabilize-the-runtime-exception-occurs-when-running-on-windows-azure.md, after:

---
title: Operation Could Destabilize the Runtime Exception Occurs when Running on Windows Azure
description: "Learn why does the error 'Operation could destabilize the runtime' occur when running Telerik Reporting on Windows Azure."
type: troubleshooting
page_title: Operation could destabilize the runtime exception fired when running on Windows Azure
slug: operation-could-destabilize-the-runtime-exception-occurs-when-running-on-windows-azure
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
	<tr>
		<td>Product</td>
		<td>Progress® Telerik® Reporting</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Viewer</td>
		<td>All</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Environment</td>
		<td>Windows Azure</td>
	</tr>
</table>

## Error Message

````
Internal Server Error:
Operation could destabilize the runtime.
````

## Cause

This problem occurs when you have published the application with **IntelliTrace** enabled.

## Description

After publishing to Windows Azure, instead of returning the rendered document, Telerik Reporting WebAPI REST service throws the described error.

## Solution

In order Telerik Reporting WebAPI REST service to function correctly you have to re-deploy with the IntelliTrace feature turned **off**.

## See Also

* [Debugging a Published Cloud Service with IntelliTrace and Visual Studio](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/azure/vs-azure-tools-intellitrace-debug-published-cloud-services?view=vs-2019)
* [Problems When Rendering Teleik Reports in Azure]({%slug azure-reporting-problems%})
