knowledge-base/report-page-header-appear-before-the-report-header.md, before:

---
title: Why does the page header appear before the report header?
description: This article elaborates on why the page header appear before the report header.
type: how-to
page_title: Why does the page header appear before the report header?
slug: report-page-header-appear-before-the-report-header
position: 
tags: 
ticketid:
res_type: kb
---

## Environment
<table>
	<tr>
		<td>Product</td>
		<td>Progress® Telerik® Reporting</td>
	</tr>
</table>


## Description

A report can be viewed as "document content", consisting of detail, [report header and footer sections]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/how-to/how-to-add-remove-report-header---footer-sections%}). Similar to Word, the document content is centered on the screen with [page header and footer sections]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/how-to/how-to-add-remove-page-header---footer-sections%}) above and below the content. Page headers and footers are not related to the report itself, but are relative to the margins of the report's media, i.e. to the paper or screen and contain page numbers, document dates, etc. More details on the report sections may be found in the [Report Structure article]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/overview%}).

Commit message:

Update pass-parameters-to-html5-report-viewer-from-a-views-model.md (#1054)
* Update pass-parameters-to-html5-report-viewer-from-a-views-model.md

* Update picturebox-encoded-url-bad-request-not-found.md

* Update print-a-report-programmatically.md

* Update print-labels.md

* Update report-page-header-appear-before-the-report-header.md

* Update reporting-rest-service-authorization.md

* Update reportviewer-styles-and-images-messed-up.md

* Update should-i-use-system-data-oracleclient-net-data-provider.md

* Update shrink-textboxes-with-no-data.md

* Update shrink-textboxes-with-no-data.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Dimitar Nikolov <dnikolov@progress.com>

knowledge-base/report-page-header-appear-before-the-report-header.md, after:

---
title: Page Header Appears Before Report Header
description: "Learn why the page header appear before the report header and page footer appears after the report footer in Telerik Reporting."
type: how-to
page_title: Why does the page header appear before the report header?
slug: report-page-header-appear-before-the-report-header
tags: 
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
	<tr>
		<td>Product</td>
		<td>Progress® Telerik® Reporting</td>
	</tr>
</table>


## Description and Solution

A report can be viewed as "document content", consisting of detail, [report header and footer sections]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/how-to/how-to-add-remove-report-header---footer-sections%}). Similar to Word, the document content is centered on the screen with [page header and footer sections]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/how-to/how-to-add-remove-page-header---footer-sections%}) above and below the content. Page headers and footers are not related to the report itself, but are relative to the margins of the report's media, i.e. to the paper or screen and contain page numbers, document dates, etc. More details on the report sections may be found in the article [Report Structure]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/overview%}).
