---
title: Adding to a .NET Project
page_title: Adding WinForms Report Viewer to Windows Forms .NET project
description: "Learn how to add the Windows Forms Report Viewer control to a Windows Forms .NET project manually, using the provided steps and sample code snippets."
slug: telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/windows-forms-application/how-to-add-report-viewer-to-a-windows-forms'-.net-core-project
tags: how, add, report,viewer, windows, forms, .net, core, project
published: True
position: 2
previous_url: /winforms-report-viewer-add-to-net-core-project
---

# Adding the Windows Forms Report Viewer Control to a Windows Forms .NET Project

This article explains the steps needed to integrate the WinForms report viewer into .NET 6 and higher projects.

The WinForms Report Viewer can display reports generated by an Embedded Reporting engine, [Telerik Reporting REST Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/overview%}), or [Telerik Report Server](https://docs.telerik.com/report-server/introduction). The setup described in this article is valid for all service types unless a particular service is specified. In this case, the corresponding step or option is valid only for the specified service types.

## Prerequisites:

* Visual Studio 2019 or newer
* .NET SDK 6 or newer
* Windows Forms App (.NET 6+) project

###Steps to add report viewer to a Windows Forms .NET 6 and higher project

1. Add the following assembly references (available in the Telerik Reporting installation Bin directory) or NuGet package references (available in [Telerik private NuGet repository]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/how-to-add-the-telerik-private-nuget-feed-to-visual-studio%})):

	+ Telerik.Reporting
	+ Telerik.ReportViewer.WinForms
	+ Telerik.Reporting.Services.HttpClient (_Required only when the viewer is used with REST Service or Report Server_)

	The _Telerik.Reporting_ and _Telerik.Reporting.Services.HttpClient_ assemblies are located in the folder `%programfiles(x86)%\Progress\Telerik Reporting {{site.suiteversion}}\Bin\netstandard2.0`. The _Telerik.ReportViewer.WinForms_ assembly can be found in `%programfiles(x86)%\Progress\Telerik Reporting {{site.suiteversion}}\Bin`. Select the _net6.0-windows_ or _net8.0-windows_ subfolder depending on the exact framework used. We recommend using NuGet packages. In this case, the __Telerik.ReportViewer.WinForms__ package will add _Telerik.Reporting_ and all its dependencies automatically. If you prefer to add the Telerik Reporting assemblies as references, you need to add also all the _Telerik.Reporting_ dependencies manually. This includes but may not be limited to the following packages:

	+ Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration
	+ Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.Json
	+ Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.Binder
	+ SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_green

	If you need to add also the external dependencies of _Telerik.Reporting_ as assembly references, it would be necessary to include all their dependencies manually.

1. Instantiate UriReportSource and set the proper UriReportSource.Uri relative path:

	+ When using an __Embedded Reporting engine__: Reference a descriptive report definition (TRDP or TRDX report) from a local folder, or type report definition (CS or VB report) from a report library project. For example, add a new folder named *Reports* in the application main folder, copy your TRDP reports there, and reference one of them. Don't forget to set their property 'Copy to Output Directory' to 'Copy always' or 'Copy if newer':

		{{source=CodeSnippets\CS\API\Telerik\ReportViewer\WinForms\Form1.cs region=DesktopViewer_Core_UriReportSource}}

The report will be rendered with the values "Parameter1_Value" and "Parameter2_Value" for the Report Parameters named "Parameter1_Name" and "Parameter2_Name", correspondingly.

	+ When using a __Telerik Reporting REST Service__: The reports get rendered server-side and need to be accessible by the service. For that reason, you need to reference a descriptive report definition (TRDP or TRDX report) from a folder accessible by the service, or type report definition (CS or VB report) from a report library project that is accessible by the service.

		{{source=CodeSnippets\CS\API\Telerik\ReportViewer\WinForms\Form1.cs region=DesktopViewer_Core_RestService_UriReportSource}}

		With the above setting, the REST Service will look for the report named "MyReportName.trdp" in the folder specified as an argument of the [UriReportSourceResolver](/api/Telerik.Reporting.Services#Telerik_Reporting_Services_UriReportSourceResolver_System_String_) constructor. The report will be rendered with the value "Parameter1_Value" for the Report Parameter named "Parameter1_Name".

	+ When using a __Telerik Report Server__ : The reports will be rendered by the Report Server. For that reason, you need to reference a descriptive report definition (TRDP or TRDX report) that is hosted on the server

		{{source=CodeSnippets\CS\API\Telerik\ReportViewer\WinForms\Form1.cs region=DesktopViewer_Core_RportServer_UriReportSource}}

		With the above setting, the Report Server will look for the report named "MyReportName.trdp" in the category "MyCategory". The report will be rendered with the value "Parameter1_Value" for the Report Parameter named "Parameter1_Name".

1. Instantiate and set the WinForms Report Viewer:

	+ When using an __Embedded Reporting engine__ :

		{{source=CodeSnippets\CS\API\Telerik\ReportViewer\WinForms\Form1.cs region=DesktopViewer_Core_Init}}

		Don't forget to add the viewer to the Form's Controls.

	+ When using a __Telerik Reporting REST Service__ :

		{{source=CodeSnippets\CS\API\Telerik\ReportViewer\WinForms\Form1.cs region=DesktopViewer_Core_RestService_Init}}

		The above settings assume that the REST Service is running on `http://localhost:59654/api/reports` and the client will not expire if not active.

	+ When using a __Telerik Report Server__ :

		{{source=CodeSnippets\CS\API\Telerik\ReportViewer\WinForms\Form1.cs region=DesktopViewer_Core_RportServer_Init}}

		The above settings assume that the Report Server is running on `http://yourreportserver:83`. Note that you need to provide a valid username and password so that the viewer can log in successfully, or have the guest user enabled in the Report Server.

## See Also

* [Report Viewer Localization]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/windows-forms-application/report-viewer-localization%})
* [.NET Support]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/dot-net-core-support%})
