---
title: R1 2017 SP2
page_title: R1 2017 SP2 Release Overview 
description: "See the changes introduced with Telerik Reporting R1 2017 SP2 that should be considered before upgrading, and the 3rd party products & packages this version depends on."
slug: telerikreporting/upgrade/2017/r1-2017-sp2
tags: r1,2017,sp2
published: True
position: 2
previous_url: /upgrade-path-2017-r1-sp2
---

# R1 2017 SP2 Changes and Dependencies

This article explains the manual changes required when upgrading to Telerik Reporting R1 2017 SP2 (11.0.17.406).

## Changes

### Built-in functions

[Format(format, value) text function]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/expressions-reference/functions/text-functions%}) is evaluated using the current item's culture instead of using the culture of the current thread. 

### HTML5 Report Viewer

The report viewer's default template file *telerikReportViewerTemplate.html* has been modified: 

* A "*trv-report-pager* " class has been added to the toolbar page number input list item, so it can be easily accessible and customizable via CSS rules. 

* A non-breaking space has been added between the Export button icons for readability. 

It is recommended to update the template manually with the above changes when using a custom template file. 

## Dependencies

### WPF Report Viewer Dependencies

The viewer is build with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2017.1.222.40__. If you are using a newer version consider adding binding redirects. For more information see: [How to Add report viewer to a WPF .NET Framework project]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/wpf-application/how-to-add-report-viewer-to-a-wpf-.net-framework-project%}).

If you connect to a REST service or Report Server instance, you have to install the [Microsoft ASP.NET Web API Client v.4.0.30506](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.Client/4.0.30506) NuGet package. Installing a newer version would require upgrading the project's target framework. 

### Silverlight Report Viewer Dependencies

The viewer is build with Telerik UI Controls for Silverlight __2017.1.222.1050__. 

### Standalone Report Designer

TRDX and TRDP files created by the Standalone Report Designer use schema version __http://schemas.telerik.com/reporting/2012/4.2__. 

### HTML5 Report Viewer Dependencies

The [HTML5 Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/html5-report-viewer/overview%}) depends on the following libraries: 

* Telerik Kendo UI (__2015.3.930__ or later) 

* jQuery (__1.9.1__ or later) 

### WinForms Report Viewer Dependencies

If you connect to a REST service or Report Server instance, you have to install the [Microsoft ASP.NET Web API Client v.4.0.30506](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.Client/4.0.30506) NuGet package. Installing a newer version would require upgrading the project's target framework. 

### ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service Dependencies

The [ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-api-reference/overview%}) requires the following assemblies: 

* Microsoft ASP.NET Web API (__4.0.20710.0__ or later) 

* Newtonsoft.Json (__4.5.11.15520__ or later) 

### ServiceStack Report Service Dependencies

The [ServiceStack Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/servicestack-implementation/how-to-add-telerik-reporting-rest-servicestack-to-web-application%}) uses ServiceStack (__3.9.70.0__): 

### CubeDataSource Dependencies

If you are using [CubeDataSource]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/cubedatasource-component/overview%}), the version of your Microsoft.AnalysisServices.AdomdClient should be __10.0.0.0__ or later. 

### Database Cache Provider Dependencies

If you are using [Database Cache Provider]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/cache-management/other-reportviewer-controls/configuring-the-database-cache-provider%}), the version of your Telerik Data Access ORM should be __2015.1.225.1__ or later. 
