---
title: R1 2021 SP1
page_title: R1 2021 SP1 Release Overview 
description: "See the changes introduced with Telerik Reporting R1 2021 SP1 that should be considered before upgrading, and the 3rd party products & packages this version depends on."
slug: telerikreporting/upgrade/2021/r1-2021-sp1
tags: r1,2021,sp1
published: True
position: 1
previous_url: /upgrade-path-2021-r1-sp1
---

# R1 2021 SP1 Changes and Dependencies

This article explains the manual changes required when upgrading to Telerik Reporting R1 2021 SP1 (15.0.21.224).

## Changes

## Report Rendering

Report rendering now skips the generated blank pages. Use the property [Telerik.Reporting.Report.SkipBlankPages](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.Report#Telerik_Reporting_Report_SkipBlankPages) to control this behavior. 

## ASP.NET Core Reporting REST Service

The service configuration no longer requires to set the property __AllowSynchronousIO__ to __true__. 

The method __GetResource__ of the *Telerik.Reporting.Services.AspNetCore.ReportsControllerBase* class is now obsolete. Please use the __GetResourceAsync__ method instead. 

## ASP.NET Core Web Report Designer REST Service

The service configuration no longer requires to set the property __AllowSynchronousIO__ to __true__. 

The method __SaveReport__ of the *Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services.Controllers.ReportDesignerControllerBase* class is now obsolete. Please use the __SaveReportAsync__ method instead. 

The method __RenderGraph__ of the *Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services.Controllers.ReportDesignerControllerBase* class is now obsolete. Please use the __RenderGraphAsync__ method instead. 

The method __RenderMap__ of the *Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services.Controllers.ReportDesignerControllerBase* class is now obsolete. Please use the __RenderMapAsync__ method instead. 

The method __RenderBarcode__ of the *Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services.Controllers.ReportDesignerControllerBase* class is now obsolete. Please use the __RenderBarcodeAsync__ method instead. 

The method __RenderHtmlTextBox__ of the *Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services.Controllers.ReportDesignerControllerBase* class is now obsolete. Please use the __RenderHtmlTextBoxAsync__ method instead. 

The method __RenderShape__ of the *Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services.Controllers.ReportDesignerControllerBase* class is now obsolete. Please use the __RenderShapeAsync__ method instead. 

The method __RenderCrossSectionItem__ of the *Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services.Controllers.ReportDesignerControllerBase* class is now obsolete. Please use the __RenderCrossSectionItemAsync__ method instead. 

The method __RenderCheckBox__ of the *Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services.Controllers.ReportDesignerControllerBase* class is now obsolete. Please use the __RenderCheckBoxAsync__ method instead. 

The method __RenderPictureBox__ of the *Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services.Controllers.ReportDesignerControllerBase* class is now obsolete. Please use the __RenderPictureBoxAsync__ method instead. 

## WPF Report Viewer for .NET Framework

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2021.1.223.40__. If you are using a newer version, consider adding binding redirects. For more information see: [How to Add report viewer to a WPF .NET Framework project]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/wpf-application/how-to-add-report-viewer-to-a-wpf-.net-framework-project%}).

## WPF Report Viewer for .NET Core

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2021.1.223.310__ and targets .NET Core 3.1. 

## WPF Report Viewer for .NET 5

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2021.1.223.50__ and targets .NET 5. 

## Silverlight Report Viewer

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for Silverlight __2021.1.223.1050__. 

## Dependencies

## HTML5 Report Viewer Dependencies

The [HTML5 Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/html5-report-viewer/overview%}) depends on the following libraries: 

* Telerik Kendo UI (__2020.3.1118__ or later) 

* jQuery (__1.9.1__ or later) 

* Browser's native support for promises. When the browser does not support promises the viewer will automatically load a promise polyfill from [Polyfill.io](https://polyfill.io) unless one is not already loaded in the application. 

## Angular Report Viewer Dependencies

 The [Angular Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/angular-report-viewer-overview%}) depends on the following:  

* Angular (__4.0.0__ or later) 

* jQuery (__3.2.1__) 

## HttpClient Dependencies

Connecting a desktop report viewer (WinForms or WPF) to a REST service or Report Server instance requires the following NuGet packages: 

* Newtonsoft.Json (__9.0.1__ or later for .NET Framework projects, __12.0.3__ or later for .NET Core projects) 

* Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.Client (__4.0.30506__ or later for .NET Framework projects, __5.2.7__ or later for .NET Core projects) 

## WebServiceDataSource Dependencies

The [Overview]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/webservicedatasource-component/overview%}) requires the following NuGet packages: 

* Microsoft.Net.Http (__2.0.20710__ or later) 

* Newtonsoft.Json (__9.0.1__ or later) 

## ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service Dependencies

The [ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-api-reference/overview%}) requires the following NuGet packages: 

* Microsoft ASP.NET Web API (__4.0.20710.0__ or later) 

* Newtonsoft.Json (__9.0.1__ or later) 

## ServiceStack Report Service Dependencies

The [ServiceStack Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/servicestack-implementation/how-to-add-telerik-reporting-rest-servicestack-to-web-application%}) uses ServiceStack (__3.9.70.0__): 

## CubeDataSource Dependencies

If you are using [CubeDataSource]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/cubedatasource-component/overview%}), the version of your Microsoft.AnalysisServices.AdomdClient should be __10.0.0.0__ or later. 

## Database Cache Provider Dependencies

If you are using [Database Cache Provider]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/cache-management/other-reportviewer-controls/configuring-the-database-cache-provider%}), the version of your Telerik Data Access ORM should be __2015.1.225.1__ or later. 

## Internal Cache

The internal cache uses SQLite version __3.26.0__.
