designing-reports/troubleshoot-report-definition-tips.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshoot Report Definitions
page_title: Tips for troubleshooting your reports
description: "Learn how to troubleshoot report structure problems when working with the Telerik Reporting Report Designer tools."
slug: troubleshoot-report-definition-tips
tags: telerik, reporting, creating, designing, reports, troubleshooting, tips
published: True
position: 20
reportingArea: General
---

# Tips for Troubleshooting Report Design

## Fixing Report Designer Warnings

Ensure there are no yellow triangle warnings shown in design time when editing your report definitions in the report designers. Hover the corresponding warning triangle to check the exact problem described in the tooltip.

For example, the following image shows the tooltip of the warning stating that "Report is too wide to horizontally fit on a single page.":
![Warning triangle in the Standalone Report Designer with the tooltip explaining that the report is too wide.](images/warning-triangle-standalone-designer.png)

To fix the above warning, you may:
* Decrease the Report `Width`
* Increase the Report Page Width in one of the following ways:
	+ Change the Report [`PageSettings`](/api/telerik.reporting.drawing.pagesettings) > `PaperKind` to a bigger one that will accommodate the content;
	+ Inrease the Report [`PageSettings`](/api/telerik.reporting.drawing.pagesettings) > `PaperSize` > `Width` for `Custom` paper kind;
	+ Decrease the Report [`PageSettings`](/api/telerik.reporting.drawing.pagesettings) > `Margins` > `Left` and/or `Right`.

Check for [Bindings]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/bindings%}) and [Conditional Formatting]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/conditional-formatting%}) that may be altering the report layout only at runtime.

## Troubleshooting Report Layout

Use different __Styles__, for example, `Background Color` and `Borders`, to easily distinguish between report sections and items and identify which one is responsible for the observed inconsistency in the report layout. For complex reports, with many nested items, start by coloring the top-level containers first, and then dig deeper by coloring that container's nested items as well, until you find the item responsible for the issues.

Here is an example with the detail section and the Panel inside it easily distinguishable due to the background colors:
![Report with detail section in light green and a panel in light blue in the Standalone Report Designer.](images/colored-detail-section-and-panel-standalone-designer.png)

### Data is Missing at Runtime

Ensure you have assigned the `DataSource` property of your Report or other [data item]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/overview%}), for example, [Table]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/table-crosstab-list/overview%}) or [Graph]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/graph/overview%}):
![The sample Report 'ProductCatalog.trdp' with its DataSource property set to sqlDataSource1 in the Standalone Report Designer.](images/report-datasource-property-set-standalone-designer.png)

Alternatively, you may use [Binding]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/bindings%}) for the `DataSource` property to display the data only at runtime. With this approach, the Binding will override the `DataSource` property Value at runtime.

When displaying data in a TextBox or other report item, ensure it is in the correct [data scope]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/expression-scope-%}). This means that its parent data item should have as a DataSource the corresponding source of data, for example, [DataSource component]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/overview%}).

### Data is Multiplying at Runtime

The problem may occur if you have set the `DataSource` property of the [Report item]({%slug report_item%}), an inner data item (e.g., Table) in its detail section to the same value, for example, to the same DataSource component.

The reason for the issue is that the detail section of the data items (e.g., the Report) is rendered as many times as there are records in its data source. Therefore, when you place a Table in the Report detail section, it gets rendered as many times as the Report DataSource records. When the Table and the Report have the same DataSource, the Table will be rendered multiple times.

For fixing the problem, remove/reset the DataSource property value of the Report (parent data item).

In scenarios where you need the same DataSource to be used in the Report and an inner data item (e.g., Table), consider the following approaches to avoid data multiplication:

* Place the inner data item (Table) in a [Report Header/Footer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/how-to/how-to-add-remove-report-header---footer-sections%}) section. These sections are generated once per report.
* [Introduce a Report Group]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/grouping-data/how-to-add-groups-to-report%}) and place the inner data item (Table) in the [Group Header or Footer section](({%slug report_structure_groups_sections%}#group-header). These sections are generated once per group. Therefore, the Table will be displayed once per group.
* Limit inner data item (Table) data:
	+ Use [Filtering]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/filtering-data/how-to-add-filtering-to-table-item-and-crosstab-item%}) to ensure the Table displays relevant data for the group or parent detail section.
	+ Use [Binding to the parent data item]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/binding-a-data-item-to-data%}#binding-to-data-from-the-parent-data-item) in the Table's DataSource. In a Report Group, this will ensure the data in the Table is relevant to the group. In the Report detail section, the Binding will let the Table display only the current detail data record.

### DataSource (SQL) Parameter Values are not Applied

The DataSource components expose [DataSource parameters]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/using-parameters-with-data-source-objects%}) that may be used to [filter the data server-side]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/filtering-data/overview%}#server-side-filtering). The values of DataSource parameters must be set to a valid [Expression]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/overview%}), including the available [Global Objects]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/expressions-reference/global-objects%}).

For example, the [SqlDataSource parameters]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/sqldatasource-component/using-parameters-with-the-sqldatasource-component%}) can be used as SQL query parameters in _Select commands_ and _Stored Procedures_. In the most common scenario, the SqlDataSource parameters are linked with [Report Parameters]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/report-parameters/overview%}):
![Linking a SqlDataSource parameter with Report Parameter in the sample Report 'ProductCatalog.trdp' in the Standalone Report Designer.](images/link-sql-data-source-parameter-with-report-parameter.png)

If the SQL query parameters are not passed correctly to the database, ensure the above link with a Report Parameter/Expression is correct.

### Expression Values

Use a temporary `TextBox` in the same [data item]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/overview%}) or [report section]({%slug report_structure_groups_sections%}#report-sections), ensuring the same [scope]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/expression-scope-%}) to display the actually evaluated content in the [Binding]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/bindings%}), [Conditional Formatting]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/conditional-formatting%}) or other [Expressions]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/overview%}).

### Unexpected Page Breaks

* Page Break Properties:
	Inspect the [Report Sections]({%slug report_structure_groups_sections%}#report-sections) for the `PageBreak` property and [Report Groups]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/grouping-data/how-to-add-groups-to-report%}) and the [Table Groups]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/grouping-data/how-to-add-groups-to-table-item-and-crosstab-item%}) for the `GroupPageBreak` property settings.

* Keep Together Settings:
	Most of the Report Items and Sections expose the property `KeepTogether`. The Groups expose `GroupKeepTogether`.
	When the property value is `True`, the Reporting Engine tries to render the entire item/section/group content on the same page. If it doesn't fit, it attempts to move the whole content to a new page. When the content fits on the new page, the previous page may remain partly blank. If this is not the desired outcome, ensure the corresponding report items/sections/groups have their keep together values set to false.

* Horizontal Pagination:
	Generally, the [Report items]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/overview%}) grow only vertically to accommodate larger content. Only [Crosstabs and Tables/Lists with column grouping]({%slug table_template_items%}), _rotated Tables_ and [SubReports]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/subreport%}) may grow horizontally. In case of unexpected horizontal page breaks, inspect the items' runtime content.

### Report Items Order in Accessibility

When enabling the [Accessibility feature]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/accessibility%}) of your reports, the items will be read according to their logical item order. This order may be seen and changed in the [Report Explorer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/tools/report-explorer%})] in the [report designers]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/overview%}).

By default, the [Report Items]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/overview%}) appear in the Report Explorer in the order they have been added to the report definition. Therefore, if you place an item added later at the top of the report, it may be shown in the Report Explorer before items appearing lower in the report section, despite being added before. 

Consider reordering the items the way they must appear when using Accessibility by dragging the items in the Report Explorer:

![Reordering items in the Report Explorer of the Standalone Report Designer.](images/reorder-items-in-report-explorer-standalone-designer.gif)

## Type Reports in Visual Studio Report Designer

The [Visual Studio Report Designer for .NET Framework]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/visual-studio-report-designer/overview%}) automatically generates the code for the CS/VB reports and stores it in the `InitializeComponent` method of the file `ReportName.designer.cs`/`ReportName.Designer.vb`. Check the file for errors if the report cannot be opened in the report designer.

## See Also

* [Understanding Pagination]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/rendering-and-paging/understanding-pagination%})
* [Interactive and Print Layouts]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/interactive-vs.-print-layout%})
* [Basic Design Considerations for Report Items]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/design-considerations-for-report-item-layout%})
* [Properties and Settings of the Report Definition]({%slug report_item_properties_settings%})

Commit message:

Update troubleshoot-report-definition-tips.md (#2006)

designing-reports/troubleshoot-report-definition-tips.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshoot Report Definitions
page_title: Tips for troubleshooting your reports
description: "Learn how to troubleshoot report structure problems when working with the Telerik Reporting Report Designer tools."
slug: troubleshoot-report-definition-tips
tags: telerik, reporting, creating, designing, reports, troubleshooting, tips
published: True
position: 20
reportingArea: General
---

# Tips for Troubleshooting Report Design

## Fixing Report Designer Warnings

Ensure there are no yellow triangle warnings shown in design time when editing your [report definitions]({%slug on-telerik-reporting%}#report-definition) in the report designers. Hover the corresponding warning triangle to check the exact problem described in the tooltip.

For example, the following image shows the tooltip of the warning stating that "Report is too wide to horizontally fit on a single page.":
![Warning triangle in the Standalone Report Designer with the tooltip explaining that the report is too wide.](images/warning-triangle-standalone-designer.png)

To fix the above warning, you may:
* Decrease the Report `Width`
* Increase the Report Page Width in one of the following ways:
	+ Change the Report [`PageSettings`](/api/telerik.reporting.drawing.pagesettings) > `PaperKind` to a bigger one that will accommodate the content;
	+ Inrease the Report [`PageSettings`](/api/telerik.reporting.drawing.pagesettings) > `PaperSize` > `Width` for `Custom` paper kind;
	+ Decrease the Report [`PageSettings`](/api/telerik.reporting.drawing.pagesettings) > `Margins` > `Left` and/or `Right`.

Check for [Bindings]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/bindings%}) and [Conditional Formatting]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/conditional-formatting%}) that may be altering the report layout only at runtime.

## Troubleshooting Report Layout

Use different __Styles__, for example, `Background Color` and `Borders`, to easily distinguish between report sections and items and identify which one is responsible for the observed inconsistency in the report layout. For complex reports, with many nested items, start by coloring the top-level containers first, and then dig deeper by coloring that container's nested items as well, until you find the item responsible for the issues.

Here is an example with the detail section and the Panel inside it easily distinguishable due to the background colors:
![Report with detail section in light green and a panel in light blue in the Standalone Report Designer.](images/colored-detail-section-and-panel-standalone-designer.png)

### Data is Missing at Runtime

Ensure you have assigned the `DataSource` property of your Report or other [data item]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/overview%}), for example, [Table]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/table-crosstab-list/overview%}) or [Graph]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/graph/overview%}):
![The sample Report 'ProductCatalog.trdp' with its DataSource property set to sqlDataSource1 in the Standalone Report Designer.](images/report-datasource-property-set-standalone-designer.png)

Alternatively, you may use [Binding]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/bindings%}) for the `DataSource` property to display the data only at runtime. With this approach, the Binding will override the `DataSource` property Value at runtime.

When displaying data in a TextBox or other report item, ensure it is in the correct [data scope]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/expression-scope-%}). This means that its parent data item should have as a DataSource the corresponding source of data, for example, [DataSource component]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/overview%}).

### Data is Multiplying at Runtime

The problem may occur if you have set the `DataSource` property of the [Report item]({%slug report_item%}), an inner data item (e.g., Table) in its detail section to the same value, for example, to the same DataSource component.

The reason for the issue is that the detail section of the data items (e.g., the Report) is rendered as many times as there are records in its data source. Therefore, when you place a Table in the Report detail section, it gets rendered as many times as the Report DataSource records. When the Table and the Report have the same DataSource, the Table will be rendered multiple times.

To fix the problem, remove/reset the DataSource property value of the Report (parent data item).

In scenarios where you need the same DataSource to be used in the Report and an inner data item (e.g., Table), consider the following approaches to avoid data multiplication:

* Place the inner data item (Table) in a [Report Header/Footer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/how-to/how-to-add-remove-report-header---footer-sections%}) section. These sections are generated once per report.
* [Introduce a Report Group]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/grouping-data/how-to-add-groups-to-report%}) and place the inner data item (Table) in the [Group Header or Footer section](({%slug report_structure_groups_sections%}#group-header). These sections are generated once per group. Therefore, the Table will be displayed once per group.
* Limit inner data item (Table) data:
	+ Use [Filtering]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/filtering-data/how-to-add-filtering-to-table-item-and-crosstab-item%}) to ensure the Table displays relevant data for the group or parent detail section.
	+ Use [Binding to the parent data item]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/binding-a-data-item-to-data%}#binding-to-data-from-the-parent-data-item) in the Table's DataSource. In a Report Group, this will ensure the data in the Table is relevant to the group. In the Report detail section, the Binding will let the Table display only the current detail data record.

### DataSource (SQL) Parameter Values are not Applied

The DataSource components expose [DataSource parameters]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/using-parameters-with-data-source-objects%}) that may be used to [filter the data server-side]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/filtering-data/overview%}#server-side-filtering). The values of DataSource parameters must be set to a valid [Expression]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/overview%}), including the available [Global Objects]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/expressions-reference/global-objects%}).

For example, the [SqlDataSource parameters]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/sqldatasource-component/using-parameters-with-the-sqldatasource-component%}) can be used as SQL query parameters in _Select commands_ and _Stored Procedures_. In the most common scenario, the SqlDataSource parameters are linked with [Report Parameters]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/report-parameters/overview%}):
![Linking a SqlDataSource parameter with Report Parameter in the sample Report 'ProductCatalog.trdp' in the Standalone Report Designer.](images/link-sql-data-source-parameter-with-report-parameter.png)

If the SQL query parameters are not passed correctly to the database, ensure the above link with a Report Parameter/Expression is correct.

### Expression Values

Use a temporary `TextBox` in the same [data item]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/overview%}) or [report section]({%slug report_structure_groups_sections%}#report-sections), ensuring the same [scope]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/expression-scope-%}) to display the actually evaluated content in the [Binding]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/bindings%}), [Conditional Formatting]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/conditional-formatting%}) or other [Expressions]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/using-expressions/overview%}).

### Unexpected Page Breaks

* Page Break Properties:
	Inspect the [Report Sections]({%slug report_structure_groups_sections%}#report-sections) for the `PageBreak` property and [Report Groups]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/grouping-data/how-to-add-groups-to-report%}) and the [Table Groups]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-items/grouping-data/how-to-add-groups-to-table-item-and-crosstab-item%}) for the `GroupPageBreak` property settings.

* Keep Together Settings:
	Most of the Report Items and Sections expose the property `KeepTogether`. The Groups expose `GroupKeepTogether`.
	When the property value is `True`, the Reporting Engine tries to render the entire item/section/group content on the same page. If it doesn't fit, it attempts to move the whole content to a new page. When the content fits on the new page, the previous page may remain partly blank. If this is not the desired outcome, ensure the corresponding report items/sections/groups have their keep together values set to false.

* Horizontal Pagination:
	Generally, the [Report items]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/overview%}) grow only vertically to accommodate larger content. Only [Crosstabs and Tables/Lists with column grouping]({%slug table_template_items%}), _rotated Tables_ and [SubReports]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/subreport%}) may grow horizontally. In case of unexpected horizontal page breaks, inspect the items' runtime content.

### Report Items Order in Accessibility

When enabling the [Accessibility feature]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/accessibility%}) of your reports, the items will be read according to their logical item order. This order may be seen and changed in the [Report Explorer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/tools/report-explorer%}) in the [report designers]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/overview%}).

By default, the [Report Items]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/overview%}) appear in the Report Explorer in the order they have been added to the report definition. Therefore, if you place an item added later at the top of the report, it may be shown in the Report Explorer before items appearing lower in the report section, despite being added before. 

Consider reordering the items the way they must appear when using Accessibility by dragging the items in the Report Explorer:

![Reordering items in the Report Explorer of the Standalone Report Designer.](images/reorder-items-in-report-explorer-standalone-designer.gif)

## Troubleshoot Report Definitions Created or Modified Dynamically with Code

If you manipulate or create a report definition with code before rendering the report, the result may differ from the expected layout.

To investigate, consider saving the final report template with code to a `TRDX` or `TRDP` file before passing it to the _ReportProcessor_ if you render programmatically, or before returning it from the _Custom ReportSource Resolver_ if you use a _Reporting REST Service_. Use the serialization functionality Telerik Reporting provides out-of-the-box:
* Produce `TRDX` report from the report instance as explained in the article section [Serializing and Deserializing Report Definitions: Serialize to XML]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/program-the-report-definition/serialize-report-definition-in-xml%}#serialize-to-xml)
* Generate `TRDP` file from the report instance: [Packaging and Unpackaging Report Definitions: Packaging CLR report definition]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/program-the-report-definition/package-report-definition%}#packaging-clr-report-definition)

Check the generated TRDX/TRDP file in the [Standalone Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/overview%}) for the cause of the unexpected appearance.

## Type Reports in Visual Studio Report Designer

The [Visual Studio Report Designer for .NET Framework]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/visual-studio-report-designer/overview%}) automatically generates the code for the CS/VB reports and stores it in the `InitializeComponent` method of the file `ReportName.designer.cs`/`ReportName.Designer.vb`. Check the file for errors if the report cannot be opened in the report designer.

## See Also

* [Understanding Pagination]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/rendering-and-paging/understanding-pagination%})
* [Interactive and Print Layouts]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/interactive-vs.-print-layout%})
* [Basic Design Considerations for Report Items]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/design-considerations-for-report-item-layout%})
* [Properties and Settings of the Report Definition]({%slug report_item_properties_settings%})
