---
title: Q1 2014
page_title: Q1 2014 Release Overview 
description: "See the changes introduced with Telerik Reporting Q1 2014 that should be considered before upgrading, and the 3rd party products & packages this version depends on."
slug: telerikreporting/upgrade/2014/q1-2014
tags: q1,2014
published: True
shonly: True
position: 0
previous_url: /upgrade-path-2014-q1
---

# Q1 2014 Changes and Dependencies

This article explains the manual changes required when upgrading to Telerik Reporting Q1 2014 (8.0.14.225).

## WPF Report Viewer Dependencies

The viewer is build with Telerik UI Controls for WPF 2013.3.1202.40. If you are using a newer version consider adding binding redirects. For more information see: [How to Add report viewer to a WPF .NET Framework project]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/wpf-application/how-to-add-report-viewer-to-a-wpf-.net-framework-project%}).

## Silverlight Report Viewer Dependencies

The viewer is build with Telerik UI Controls for Silverlight 2013.3.1202.50. 

## WPF/Silverlight Report Viewer Implicit Styling

Starting from Telerik Reporting Q1 2014 both the Silverlight and WPF report viewers will support only the implicit styling, i.e. style without the x:Key attribute. For more information regarding the implicit styling please check the respective Setting a Theme (Using Implicit Styles) help article for [WPF Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/wpf-application/setting-a-theme-(using-implicit-styles)%}) or [Silverlight Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/silverlight-application/setting-a-theme-(using-implicit-styles)%}). 

Because of that after upgrading to Q1 2014 both WPF/Silverlight report viewers may become blank. That is because the themes are no longer embedded in the assembly and are instead distributed as separate files. This means that the report viewer has no theme applied and it becomes blank. In order to apply a theme you will have to migrate from Style Manager to Implicit Styling. To do so follow these steps: 

1. Add references to the following Telerik UI for WPF assemblies, which are usually located in `C:\Program Files (x86)\Telerik\Reporting Q1 2014\Examples\CSharp\WpfDemo\bin` (respectively for Silverlight are located in `C:\Program Files (x86)\Telerik\Reporting Q1 2014\Examples\CSharp\SilverlightDemo\bin`): 

   + Telerik.Windows.Controls.dll 

   + Telerik.Windows.Controls.Input.dll 

   + Telerik.Windows.Controls.Navigation.dll 

   + Telerik.ReportViewer.Wpf.dll (for Silverlight it is Telerik.ReportViewer.Silverlight.dll) 

1. Add the respective xaml files for the desired theme. The themes are usually located in `C:\Program Files (x86)\Telerik\Reporting Q1 2014\WPF\Themes` (respectively for Silverlight are located in `C:\Program Files (x86)\Telerik\Reporting Q1 2014\Silverlight\Themes`). You will need these xaml files for each theme: 

   + System.Windows.xaml 

   + Telerik.Windows.Controls.xaml 

   + Telerik.Windows.Controls.Input.xaml 

   + Telerik.Windows.Controls.Navigation.xaml 

   + Telerik.ReportViewer.Wpf.xaml (for Silverlight it is Telerik.ReportViewer.Silverlight.xaml) 

1. Remove the __telerikControls:StyleManager.Theme=”Vista”__ attribute from the report viewer - it is no longer required since the style manager is no longer used. Instead the themes are applied implicitly to all report viewers in the application, without setting any attribute. 

1. Build, run and test the project. 

> If you are moving to a newer version of the controls both the xaml files and the assemblies have to be updated. 


## Standalone Report Designer

TRDX files created by the Standalone Report Designer contain XML version __http://schemas.telerik.com/reporting/2012/3.5__. 
