---
title: R2 2023 SP1
page_title: R2 2023 SP1 Release Overview
description: "See the changes introduced with Telerik Reporting R2 2023 SP1 that should be considered before upgrading, and the 3rd party products & packages this version depends on."
slug: telerikreporting/upgrade/2023/r2-2023-sp1
tags: r2,2023,sp1
published: True
position: 3
---

# R2 2023 SP1 Changes and Dependencies

This article explains the manual changes required when upgrading to Telerik Reporting R2 2023 SP1 (17.1.23.718).

## Changes

### Native Blazor Report Viewer

The viewer is built with Telerik UI for Blazor __4.1.0__.

### WinUI Report Viewer

The viewer is built with Telerik UI for WinUI __2.7.0__.

### WPF Report Viewer for .NET Framework

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2023.2.718.40__. If you are using a newer version, consider adding binding redirects. For more information see: [How to Add report viewer to a WPF .NET Framework project]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/wpf-application/how-to-add-report-viewer-to-a-wpf-.net-framework-project%}).

### WPF Report Viewer for .NET Core

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2023.2.718.310__ and targets .NET Core 3.1.

### WPF Report Viewer for .NET 6

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2023.2.718.60__ and targets .NET 6.

### WPF Report Viewer for .NET 7

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2023.2.718.70__ and targets .NET 7.

### Report Designers

Standalone Report Designers for .NET Framework and .NET 6, and Web Report Designer now use schema version __http://schemas.telerik.com/reporting/2023/2.1__.

## Dependencies

### Web Report Designer Dependencies

The [Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%}) depends on the following libraries:

* Telerik Kendo UI (__2022.3.913__ or later)
* jQuery (__1.9.1__ or later)
* Browser's native support for promises. When the browser does not support promises the viewer will automatically load a promise polyfill from  [Polyfill.io](https://polyfill.io)  unless one is not already loaded in the application.

### HTML5 Report Viewer Dependencies

The [HTML5 Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/html5-report-viewer/overview%}) depends on the following libraries: 

* Telerik Kendo UI (__2022.3.913__ or later)
* jQuery (__1.9.1__ or later)
* Browser's native support for promises. When the browser does not support promises the viewer will automatically load a promise polyfill from  [Polyfill.io](https://polyfill.io)  unless one is not already loaded in the application.

### Angular Report Viewer Dependencies

The [Angular Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/angular-report-viewer-overview%}) depends on the following: 

* Angular (__4.0.0__ or later)
* jQuery (__3.2.1__)

### React Report Viewer Dependencies

The [React Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/react-report-viewer/react-report-viewer-overview%}) depends on the following: 

* React (__16.8.6__ or later)
* React-DOM (__16.8.6__ or later)
* jQuery (__3.2.1__) 

### HttpClient Dependencies

Connecting a desktop report viewer (WinForms or WPF) to a REST service or Report Server instance requires the following NuGet packages:

* Newtonsoft.Json (__13.0.1__ or later for .NET Framework and .NET Core projects)
* Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.Client (__4.0.30506__ or later for .NET Framework projects, __5.2.7__ or later for .NET Core projects)

### WebServiceDataSource Component Dependencies

The [WebServiceDataSource]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/webservicedatasource-component/overview%}) requires the following NuGet packages:

* Microsoft.Net.Http (__2.0.20710__ or later)
* Newtonsoft.Json (__13.0.0.0__ or later)

### ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service Dependencies

The [ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-api-reference/overview%}) requires the following NuGet packages: 

* Microsoft ASP.NET Web API (__4.0.20710.0__ or later)
* Newtonsoft.Json (__13.0.0.0__ or later)

### ServiceStack Report Service Dependencies

The [ServiceStack Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/servicestack-implementation/how-to-add-telerik-reporting-rest-servicestack-to-web-application%}) uses ServiceStack (__3.9.70.0__).

### CubeDataSource Dependencies

If you are using [CubeDataSource]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/cubedatasource-component/overview%}), the version of your Microsoft.AnalysisServices.AdomdClient should be __10.0.0.0__ or later.

### Database Cache Provider Dependencies

If you are using [Database Cache Provider]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/cache-management/other-reportviewer-controls/configuring-the-database-cache-provider%}), the version of your Telerik Data Access ORM should be __2015.1.225.1__ or later.

### Internal Cache

The internal cache uses SQLite version __3.33.0__ for .NET Framework projects and __3.38.0__ for .NET Core and .NET 6+ projects.
