designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/configuration/extending-report-designer.md, before:

---
title: Extending Report Designer
page_title: Extending Report Designer at a Glance
description: "Learn how to make the Telerik Reporting Standalone Designer recognize custom CLR public methods and properties to be used as User functions and ObjectDataSources."
slug: telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/configuration/extending-report-designer
tags: extending,report,designer
published: True
position: 2
previous_url: /standalone-report-designer-extending-configuration
---

# Extending Report Designer to Recognize Custom Assemblies

It is a common requirement to add your own [User Functions]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/extending-expressions/user-functions%}) or bind to custom CLR objects, data models (such as an Telerik Data Access model), external assemblies with custom data source objects, data feeds (including OData), and web services.

In order to expose your data, so it can be utilized by the Object/OpenAccess/Entity [data source components]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/overview%}), or extend the default behavior of the Telerik Reporting engine with custom User Functions, you have to use the [assemblyReferences Element]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/configure-the-report-engine/assemblyreferences-element%}) of the Telerik.Reporting configuration section to reference your custom assembly:

````XML
<configuration>
	<configSections>
		<section
			name="Telerik.Reporting"
			type="Telerik.Reporting.Configuration.ReportingConfigurationSection, Telerik.Reporting"
			allowLocation="true"
			allowDefinition="Everywhere"/>
	</configSections>
	...
	<Telerik.Reporting>
		<AssemblyReferences>
			<add name="MyCustomAssembly" version="1.0.0.0" culture="neutral" publicKeyToken ="null" />
		</AssemblyReferences>
	</Telerik.Reporting>
</configuration>
````

The section should be added to the designer configuration file, __Telerik.ReportDesigner.exe.config__ that can be found in the Report Designer folder, which is the root location where the application is being executed. By default this is '(*Telerik Reporting installation folder*)\Report Designer'. The Report Designer would also search the assembly itself in this base folder.

To instruct the Report Designer to look for assemblies in other locations as well, use the [`<probing>` Element](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/dotnet/netframework-2.0/823z9h8w(v=vs.80)). For more information, see [Locating the Assembly through Codebases or Probing](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/dotnet/netframework-4.0/15hyw9x3(v=vs.100)):

````XML
<configuration>
...
	<runtime>
		<assemblyBinding xmlns="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:asm.v1">
			<probing privatePath="MyDir;MyDir2\SubDir"/>
		</assemblyBinding>
	</runtime>
	<Telerik.Reporting>
		<AssemblyReferences>
			<add name="MyCustomAssembly" version="1.0.0.0" culture="neutral" publicKeyToken ="null" />
		</AssemblyReferences>
	</Telerik.Reporting>
...
</configuration>
````


## See Also

* [How to use external assemblies with custom CLR objects in the Report Designer]({%slug how-to-use-external-assemblies-with-custom-clr-objects-in-the-report-designer%})
* [Previewing a report definition that uses an external assembly]({%slug deploying-trdx-(xml-report-definition)-that-uses-external-assembly%})
* [Configuration]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/configuration/overview%})
* [Report Designer Configuration]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/configuration/report-designer-configuration%})

Commit message:

Dess 2924 UI assembly ref (#1522)
* Initial changes

* Update extending-report-designer.md

* Extend the section for the UI

* Reorder the sections

designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/configuration/extending-report-designer.md, after:

---
title: Extending Report Designer
page_title: Extending Report Designer at a Glance
description: Learn how to make the Telerik Reporting Standalone Designer recognize custom CLR public methods and properties to be used as User functions and ObjectDataSources.
slug: telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/configuration/extending-report-designer
tags: extending,report,designer
published: True
position: 2
previous_url: /standalone-report-designer-extending-configuration
---

# Extending Report Designer to Recognize Custom Assemblies

It is a common requirement to add your own [User Functions]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/expressions/extending-expressions/user-functions%}) or bind to custom CLR objects, data models (such as an Telerik Data Access model), external assemblies with custom data source objects, data feeds (including OData), and web services.

In order to expose your data, so it can be utilized by the Object/OpenAccess/Entity [data source components]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/overview%}), or extend the default behavior of the Telerik Reporting engine with custom User Functions, you have to use the [assemblyReferences Element]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/configure-the-report-engine/assemblyreferences-element%}) of the Telerik.Reporting configuration section to reference your custom assembly:

````XML
<configuration>
	<configSections>
		<section
			name="Telerik.Reporting"
			type="Telerik.Reporting.Configuration.ReportingConfigurationSection, Telerik.Reporting"
			allowLocation="true"
			allowDefinition="Everywhere"/>
	</configSections>
	...
	<Telerik.Reporting>
		<AssemblyReferences>
			<add name="MyCustomAssembly" version="1.0.0.0" culture="neutral" publicKeyToken ="null" />
		</AssemblyReferences>
	</Telerik.Reporting>
</configuration>
````
This can be achieved either by manually editing the configuration file or by using the Standalone Report Designer's **Options** page.

## Update the Designer Configuration File Throught the UI

As of **Q4 2024** the [Standalone Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/overview%})'s **Options** page contains a new section: **Assembly References**:

![Assembly Reference in the Standalone Report Designer's Options](images/srd-assembly-reference-ui.png)  

It contains a grid listing the currently registered assemblies, similar to the grid used in Data Connections section: 

![Registered Assembly Reference in the Standalone Report Designer's Options](images/srd-registered-assemblies-ui.png)  

Adding an assembly by clicking the **Add** button will essentially open a new OpenFile dialog set to show *.dll and *.exe files. If the selected assembly is targeting a .NET version which is different than the current runtime, the following confirmation message occurs:

![Assembly Reference in the Standalone Report Designer's Options](images/srd-assembly-reference-warning-ui.png)   

Closing the dialog will trigger the routine for registering assemblies in application configuration file and loading them in app domain.

Deleting an Assembly Reference is performed by clicking the "X" button:

![Delete an Assembly Reference in the Standalone Report Designer's Options](images/srd-delete-assembly-reference-ui.png).   

Closing the dialog will trigger the routine for un-registering assemblies in application configuration file.

>note Deleting an Assembly Reference in the Standalone Report Designer for .NET Framework requires restarting the application.

## Manually Update the Designer Configuration File 

The section should be added to the designer configuration file, __Telerik.ReportDesigner.exe.config__ that can be found in the Report Designer folder, which is the root location where the application is being executed. By default, this is '(*Telerik Reporting installation folder*)\Report Designer'. The Report Designer would also search the assembly itself in this base folder.

To instruct the Report Designer to look for assemblies in other locations as well, use the [`<probing>` Element](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/dotnet/netframework-2.0/823z9h8w(v=vs.80)). For more information, see [Locating the Assembly through Codebases or Probing](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/dotnet/netframework-4.0/15hyw9x3(v=vs.100)):

````XML
<configuration>
...
	<runtime>
		<assemblyBinding xmlns="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:asm.v1">
			<probing privatePath="MyDir;MyDir2\SubDir"/>
		</assemblyBinding>
	</runtime>
	<Telerik.Reporting>
		<AssemblyReferences>
			<add name="MyCustomAssembly" version="1.0.0.0" culture="neutral" publicKeyToken ="null" />
		</AssemblyReferences>
	</Telerik.Reporting>
...
</configuration>
````

## See Also

* [How to use external assemblies with custom CLR objects in the Report Designer]({%slug how-to-use-external-assemblies-with-custom-clr-objects-in-the-report-designer%})
* [Previewing a report definition that uses an external assembly]({%slug deploying-trdx-(xml-report-definition)-that-uses-external-assembly%})
* [Configuration]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/configuration/overview%})
* [Report Designer Configuration]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/configuration/report-designer-configuration%})
