---
title: Tile Providers
page_title: Tile Providers | for Telerik Reporting Documentation
description: Tile Providers
slug: telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/map/structure/tile-providers
tags: tile,providers
published: True
position: 1
---

# Tile Providers



## Tile Providers

The  [TileProvider](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.TileProvider)  class is used to request and download the imagery data for the specified map extent.           The imagery data is downloaded on a small images called *tiles*  that form a background image, which can be used to           give a better appearance of your map charts. The tile provider should have a valid set of URLs to request the tiles, set directly or through a URL Template.           The  [Map](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.Map)  control offers two types of tile providers -  [BingMapsTileProvider](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.BingMapsTileProvider)            and  [GenericTileProvider](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider) .         

* The  [BingMapsTileProvider](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.BingMapsTileProvider)  uses                [Bing Maps REST Services](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff701713.aspx)                to request metadata information, needed to resolve the tile requests URLs, zoom levels, tile sizes and attribution information such as text and logo that will be               displayed on the map. That's why the user doesn't need to provide any server URL, subdomains or another tiles-related information - it is all retrieved automatically from the               imagery metadata according to the desired imagery set.             BingMapsTileProvider provides three types of imagery sets: *Aerial* , *Road*  or               *Aerial with Labels (an Aerial imagery with a road overlay)*  that are mapped to the predefined values of the                [ImagerySet](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.ImagerySet)                property (Aerial, Road, Hybrid). Changing the imagery set causes the __BingTileProvider__                to request images from a different tile set, thus changing the look of the map.             The tile server requires a client token for authentication,               named *Bing Maps Key* , that could be obtained from                [Bing Maps website](http://www.microsoft.com/maps/create-a-bing-maps-key.aspx) .             

* The  [GenericTileProvider](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider)  requires the user to provide more information - a template to the               server URL, the subdomain names (when needed), the application user agent, the attribution text and the URL to the map provider logo should be manually set.               The  [GenericTileProvider](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider)  is designed in compliance with the                [Web Map Tile Service](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Map_Tile_Service)                - a protocol that defines a standard way of requesting and receiving pre-rendered map tiles. It works with the most common tile size               *(256 x 256 px)*  and uses popular mathematical algorithms to calculate and process the results.             This provider can be setup to show tiles from most of the               current tile providers -                [OpenStreetMap](http://www.openstreetmap.org)                ,                [HERE Maps](http://here.com/)                ,                [Yandex Maps](http://maps.yandex.com)                and many others, since they comply with the                [WMTS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Map_Tile_Service)                protocol.               The provider requires a  [UrlTemplate](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider#Telerik_Reporting_GenericTileProvider_UrlTemplate)  and                [UrlSubdomains](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider#Telerik_Reporting_GenericTileProvider_UrlSubdomains)  to construct the tile requests URL.               If the combination of UrlTemplate and UrlSubdomains result in an invalid URI or a tile cannot be retrieved from the tile server               for some reason, the map will display a substitute tile containing the exception message.             The  [UrlTemplate](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider#Telerik_Reporting_GenericTileProvider_UrlTemplate)  includes the tags               *{subdomain}* , *{zoom}* , *{x}*  and *{y}*                and has the following format:             `                 http://{subdomain}.tile.openstreetmap.org/{zoom}/{x}/{y}.png"               `The format tags are case insensitive and can be placed in any order. The mandatory ones are *{zoom}* , *{x}*  and *{y}* ,               because they uniquely define a tile position on a tile set.             The *{subdomain}*  tag marks the place where a subdomain from the  [UrlSubdomains](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider#Telerik_Reporting_GenericTileProvider_UrlSubdomains)                collection (explained below) would be placed. This tag is not mandatory, since the selected tile provider may not offer more than one subdomain.             The *{zoom}*  tag will be replaced by the calculated zoom level (level of details) of the current tile set. The level of details               depends on the map extent and on the map control size. When the processing engine calculates the appropriate zoom level, its value will replace               the *{zoom}*  tag.             The *{x}*  and *{y}*  tags are used as a placeholders for the tile position. Before starting to fetch the tiles for the               requested map extent, the processing engine will calculate the zoom level and the coordinates of the tiles used to display the extent. When constructing the               request, the *{x}*  and *{y}*  tags will be replaced by the calculated __X__  and               __Y__  tile coordinates.             The image extension (*.jpg*  in the example above) is not mandatory and the provider defines whether to include it or not.                [Some](http://maptile.maps.svc.ovi.com/maptiler/maptile/newest/normal.day/2/2/1/256/png8)                tile providers do not require an image extension to be requested, while                [others](http://otile2.mqcdn.com/tiles/1.0.0/map/2/2/1.gif)                return the tiles in the same format, regardless of the requested extension.             The  [UrlSubdomains](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider#Telerik_Reporting_GenericTileProvider_UrlSubdomains)  property is a collection of strings, representing the               subdomains that will be used to construct the tile URLs. For example, the                [OpenStreetMap](http://www.openstreetmap.com/)                subdomains are:             `                 a, b, c               `When the processing engine calculates how many tiles will be needed for the requested map extent, it will distribute the web requests evenly               among the subdomains for an additional performance gain.             In some scenarios it's required to set a value of the UserAgent web request header, which is sent to the tile providing web services.               In this case the property  [UserAgent](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider#Telerik_Reporting_GenericTileProvider_UserAgent)  must be populated with a constant string or an expression that will be evaluated during the report processing.               The value of this property will be set as value of the UserAgent web request header.               Initially the value of the UserAgent property will be set to a newly generated GUID, but it should be replaced with a correct value according to the tile provider's usage policy.             The users should also provide an  [Attribution](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider#Telerik_Reporting_GenericTileProvider_Attribution)  text and               a  [LogoUrl](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider#Telerik_Reporting_GenericTileProvider_LogoUrl)  that will be used to display an attribution information on the map.               The  [Attribution](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider#Telerik_Reporting_GenericTileProvider_Attribution)  property must be set manually according to the tile provider                [usage policy](http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Legal_FAQ)                . This text will be displayed in the lower right corner of the map area.             The  [LogoUrl](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider#Telerik_Reporting_GenericTileProvider_LogoUrl)  property denotes the URL used to download               the tile provider                [logo](http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/w/images/thumb/7/79/Public-images-osm_logo.svg/32px-Public-images-osm_logo.svg.png)                , if required by the provider's usage policy. In case the URL points to a valid image, it will be displayed in the lower left corner of the map area.             

*  [MapQuestTileProvider](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.MapQuestTileProvider) __(obsolete)__  - uses the                [MapQuest](http://www.mapquest.com/)  tile servers that provides the tiles in two imagery sets: *OpenStreetMap Tiles*  and the *MapQuest Open Aerial Tiles* .               The tile server does not require a Client Token for authentication.             The  [MapQuestTileProvider](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.MapQuestTileProvider)  is being substituted by the                [GenericTileProvider](/reporting/api/Telerik.Reporting.GenericTileProvider)  in order to give more control over the tile provider settings and avoid the               pre-setup provider configuration.             

# See Also


 * [Map Overview]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/map/structure/overview%})

 * [Map Structure]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-structure/map/structure/overview%})
