interactivity/built-in-client-integration-ai-insights.md, before:

---
title: Enable AI-Powered Insights with Built-in AI Client
page_title: How to Enable AI-Powered Insights with Built-in AI Client
description: "Learn how to enable AI-powered insights using built-in support for popular LLM providers like Azure OpenAI, OpenAI, Azure AI Foundry, and Ollama."
slug: telerikreporting/designing-reports/adding-interactivity-to-reports/ai-powered-insights-builtin-client
tags: telerik, reporting, ai, rest
published: True
position: 2
---

# Enable AI-Powered Insights with Built-in AI Client

This tutorial shows how to enable and configure AI-powered insights using built-in support for popular LLM providers, such as Azure OpenAI, OpenAI, Azure AI Foundry, and Ollama, so that end users can run predefined or custom prompts against the data behind the currently previewed report and receive responses from an LLM.

> If you use a [Telerik Report Server](https://docs.telerik.com/report-server/introduction) instead of a standalone Telerik Reporting REST service, check the Report Server article [AI-Powered Features Settings](https://docs.telerik.com/report-server/implementer-guide/configuration/ai-settings) instead.

## Prerequisites

To follow the steps from this tutorial, you must have:

- A running application that hosts a [Telerik Reporting REST service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/overview%}).
- A report viewer connected to that REST service.
- An active subscription (or local runtime) for an LLM model provider with API access. The supported out of the box ones are:
    - [Azure AI Foundry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/concepts/deployments-overview)
    - [Azure OpenAI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/openai/overview#how-do-i-get-access-to-azure-openai)
    - [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models)
    - [Ollama](https://docs.ollama.com/quickstart)

>tip You can also connect to LLM providers that are not supported out of the box. To do this, create a custom `Telerik.Reporting.AI.IClient` implementation to integrate the provider into Reporting and enable the AI-powered insights functionality. For more details, refer to the article [Enable AI-Powered Insights with Custom AI Client]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/adding-interactivity-to-reports/ai-powered-insights-custom-client%}).

## Using AI-Powered Insights with a REST service

To enable the AI-powered insights, follow these steps:

1. Install exactly one of the following NuGet packages, depending on the LLM provider you use:

    - `Telerik.Reporting.AI.Microsoft.Extensions.AzureAIInference`&mdash;for Azure AI Foundry
    - `Telerik.Reporting.AI.Microsoft.Extensions.AzureOpenAI`&mdash;for Azure OpenAI resources
    - `Telerik.Reporting.AI.Microsoft.Extensions.OpenAI`&mdash;for OpenAI
    - `Telerik.Reporting.AI.Microsoft.Extensions.Ollama`&mdash;for Ollama

1. Add the [AIClient element]({%slug telerikreporting/aiclient-element%}) to the report engine configuration in your application's configuration file. This element allows you to specify the AI model, endpoint, and authentication credentials. The following example demonstrates a basic Azure OpenAI configuration:


````JSON
{
    "telerikReporting": {
        "AIClient": {
            "friendlyName": "MicrosoftExtensionsAzureOpenAI",
            "model": "gpt-4o-mini",
            "endpoint": "https://ai-explorations.openai.azure.com/",
            "credential": "YOUR_API_KEY"
        }
    }
}
````
````XML
<Telerik.Reporting>
    <AIClient
        friendlyName="MicrosoftExtensionsAzureOpenAI"
        model="gpt-4o-mini"
        endpoint="https://ai-explorations.openai.azure.com/"
        credential="YOUR_API_KEY">
    </AIClient>
</Telerik.Reporting>
````


>tip If you haven't configured the report engine previously, make sure to check the article [Report Engine Configuration Overview]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/configure-the-report-engine/overview%}) to get familiar with this topic.

In this case, the `friendlyName` attribute identifies the LLM provider to the report engine. Each provider has specific configuration requirements:

- Azure OpenAI: Use `MicrosoftExtensionsAzureOpenAI`. Requires `model`, `endpoint`, and `credential`.
- Azure AI Foundry: Use `MicrosoftExtensionsAzureAIInference`. Requires `model`, `endpoint`, and `credential`.
- OpenAI: Use `MicrosoftExtensionsOpenAI`. Requires only `model` and `credential` (uses the default OpenAI API endpoint).
- Ollama: Use `MicrosoftExtensionsOllama`. Requires only `model` and `endpoint` (no authentication needed for local deployments).

## See Also

* [AI-Powered Insights Overview]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/adding-interactivity-to-reports/ai-powered-insights%})
* [Enable AI-Powered Insights with Custom AI Client]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/adding-interactivity-to-reports/ai-powered-insights-custom-client%})
* [Customizing AI-Powered Insights]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/adding-interactivity-to-reports/configuring-ai-powered-insights%})
* [AI Insights Report Demo](https://demos.telerik.com/reporting/ai-insights)

Commit message:

docs: add note on resolving prerelease dependencies in package.config format (#1884)
* docs: add note on resolving prerelease dependencies in package.config format

* chore: clarify this is telerik reporting

interactivity/built-in-client-integration-ai-insights.md, after:

---
title: Enable AI-Powered Insights with Built-in AI Client
page_title: How to Enable AI-Powered Insights with Built-in AI Client
description: "Learn how to enable AI-powered insights using built-in support for popular LLM providers like Azure OpenAI, OpenAI, Azure AI Foundry, and Ollama."
slug: telerikreporting/designing-reports/adding-interactivity-to-reports/ai-powered-insights-builtin-client
tags: telerik, reporting, ai, rest
published: True
position: 2
---

# Enable AI-Powered Insights with Built-in AI Client

This tutorial shows how to enable and configure AI-powered insights using built-in support for popular LLM providers, such as Azure OpenAI, OpenAI, Azure AI Foundry, and Ollama, so that end users can run predefined or custom prompts against the data behind the currently previewed report and receive responses from an LLM.

> If you use a [Telerik Report Server](https://docs.telerik.com/report-server/introduction) instead of a standalone Telerik Reporting REST service, check the Report Server article [AI-Powered Features Settings](https://docs.telerik.com/report-server/implementer-guide/configuration/ai-settings) instead.

## Prerequisites

To follow the steps from this tutorial, you must have:

- A running application that hosts a [Telerik Reporting REST service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/overview%}).
- A report viewer connected to that REST service.
- An active subscription (or local runtime) for an LLM model provider with API access. The supported out of the box ones are:
    - [Azure AI Foundry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/concepts/deployments-overview)
    - [Azure OpenAI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/openai/overview#how-do-i-get-access-to-azure-openai)
    - [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models)
    - [Ollama](https://docs.ollama.com/quickstart)

>tip You can also connect to LLM providers that are not supported out of the box. To do this, create a custom `Telerik.Reporting.AI.IClient` implementation to integrate the provider into Reporting and enable the AI-powered insights functionality. For more details, refer to the article [Enable AI-Powered Insights with Custom AI Client]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/adding-interactivity-to-reports/ai-powered-insights-custom-client%}).

## Using AI-Powered Insights with a REST service

To enable the AI-powered insights, follow these steps:

1. Install exactly one of the following NuGet packages, depending on the LLM provider you use:

    - `Telerik.Reporting.AI.Microsoft.Extensions.AzureAIInference`&mdash;for Azure AI Foundry
    - `Telerik.Reporting.AI.Microsoft.Extensions.AzureOpenAI`&mdash;for Azure OpenAI resources
    - `Telerik.Reporting.AI.Microsoft.Extensions.OpenAI`&mdash;for OpenAI
    - `Telerik.Reporting.AI.Microsoft.Extensions.Ollama`&mdash;for Ollama

    > These packages depend on other NuGet packages that are currently in prerelease versions. .NET Framework projects using the `packages.config` format cannot automatically resolve prerelease dependencies, which may cause installation errors. To resolve this, first manually install the required prerelease packages using the NuGet Package Manager UI with the ["Include prerelease" option enabled](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/create-packages/prerelease-packages#installing-and-updating-pre-release-packages), then install the Telerik Reporting AI package.

1. Add the [AIClient element]({%slug telerikreporting/aiclient-element%}) to the report engine configuration in your application's configuration file. This element allows you to specify the AI model, endpoint, and authentication credentials. The following example demonstrates a basic Azure OpenAI configuration:


````JSON
{
    "telerikReporting": {
        "AIClient": {
            "friendlyName": "MicrosoftExtensionsAzureOpenAI",
            "model": "gpt-4o-mini",
            "endpoint": "https://ai-explorations.openai.azure.com/",
            "credential": "YOUR_API_KEY"
        }
    }
}
````
````XML
<Telerik.Reporting>
    <AIClient
        friendlyName="MicrosoftExtensionsAzureOpenAI"
        model="gpt-4o-mini"
        endpoint="https://ai-explorations.openai.azure.com/"
        credential="YOUR_API_KEY">
    </AIClient>
</Telerik.Reporting>
````


>tip If you haven't configured the report engine previously, make sure to check the article [Report Engine Configuration Overview]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/configure-the-report-engine/overview%}) to get familiar with this topic.

In this case, the `friendlyName` attribute identifies the LLM provider to the report engine. Each provider has specific configuration requirements:

- Azure OpenAI: Use `MicrosoftExtensionsAzureOpenAI`. Requires `model`, `endpoint`, and `credential`.
- Azure AI Foundry: Use `MicrosoftExtensionsAzureAIInference`. Requires `model`, `endpoint`, and `credential`.
- OpenAI: Use `MicrosoftExtensionsOpenAI`. Requires only `model` and `credential` (uses the default OpenAI API endpoint).
- Ollama: Use `MicrosoftExtensionsOllama`. Requires only `model` and `endpoint` (no authentication needed for local deployments).

## See Also

* [AI-Powered Insights Overview]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/adding-interactivity-to-reports/ai-powered-insights%})
* [Enable AI-Powered Insights with Custom AI Client]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/adding-interactivity-to-reports/ai-powered-insights-custom-client%})
* [Customizing AI-Powered Insights]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/adding-interactivity-to-reports/configuring-ai-powered-insights%})
* [AI Insights Report Demo](https://demos.telerik.com/reporting/ai-insights)
