user-guide/components/components.md, before:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Components - Overview
description: Explore the available report components offered by the Web Report Designer.
slug: web-report-designer-user-guide-components
tags: web, report, design, components, overview
published: True
position: 0
---

<style>
img[alt$="><"] {
  border: 1px solid lightgrey; 
}
table th:first-of-type {
	width: 50%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(2) {
	width:50%;
}
}
</style>

# Components Overview

Each report is constructed from [report items]({%slug user-guide/components/report-items%}). All report items that you can add to your report design are organized in different groups (categories) in the **Components** tab.

The Components tab lists the available report components that you can add to your report design. The items are organized in groups based on their type and functionality. The tab supports two layout modes&mdash;grid and list. The list view is the default mode.

## How to Use Components

You can add components to your report in two ways:

* Drag and drop&mdash;Click the report's design surface and drag a component from the Components tab onto the report.
* Click to add&mdash;Click the desired location in your report, then click the component in the Components tab.

![Components tray in List Mode ><](images/wrd-components-tray-design-mode.png)
 
|Group (Category)|Report Items|
|----|----|
|[Report Items]({%slug user-guide/components/report-items%}) - The main building blocks used in the report depending on the data that will be displayed, e.g. a TextBox item for static or data-bound text, a PictureBox for displaying images, a Barcode for showing a barcode in a label report, etc.|<ul><li>TextBox</li><li>HtmlTextBox</li><li>PictureBox</li><li>CheckBox</li><li>Barcode</li><li>Shape</li><li>Panel</li><li>Radial Gauge Wizard</li><li>Linear Gauge Wizard</li></ul>|
|[Tables]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-tables%}) - The Table report item is a generalized layout report item that displays report data in cells that are organized into rows and columns.|<ul><li>List</li><li>Table</li><li>Crosstab</li><li>Table Wizard</li><li>Crosstab Wizard</li></ul>|
|Reports - The [SubReport]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-subreport%}) item enables you to display reports within reports and serves as a container, similar to the report sections, growing in size depending on its children.|<ul><li>SubReport</li></ul>|
|[Maps]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-maps%}) - The Map report item is a native Telerik Reporting item which enables you to visualize aggregate business data in a geographical manner.|<ul><li>Map types: Point, Pie, Column</li><li>Choropleth</li></ul>|
|[Charts]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-charts%}) - The Graph report item is a native Telerik Reporting item that allows you to generate different Chart types (objects) and visually present large volumes of aggregated information.|<ul><li>Bar Chart</li><li>Line Chart</li><li>Area Chart</li><li>Column Chart</li><li>Pie Chart</li><li>Doughnut Chart</li></ul>|
|[Report Sections]({%slug user-guide/components/report-sections%}) - A Telerik report consists of different sections that may contain report items. Each report section represents a specific area on the report page and defines the rendering of its report items.|<ul><li>Page Header</li><li>Page Footer</li><li>Report Header</li><li>Report Footer</li><li>Table of Contents</li></ul>|
|[Data Sources]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-data-sources%}) - Data Source components are used to connect data items to different types of data without writing any code.|<ul><li>SQL Data Source</li><li>CSV Data Source</li><li>Web Service Data Source</li><li>GraphQL Data Source</li><li>JSON Data Source</li><li>Object Data Source</li></ul>|

## Next Steps

* [Learn about Report Items]({%slug user-guide/components/report-items%})
* [Configure Data Sources]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-data-sources%})
* [Explore Report Sections]({%slug user-guide/components/report-sections%})
* [Create Your First Report]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-getting-started%})

## See Also

* [Report Structure]({%slug user-guide/report-structure%})
* [Working with Tables]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-tables%})

Commit message:

chore: fix typos and grammar errors (#1816)
* chore: fix typos and grammar errors

- fixed a few typos, grammar errors, and some incorrect statements.

* Apply suggestions from code review

* Apply suggestions from review - components.md

* Apply suggestions from review - components.md

* Apply suggestions from review - components.md

* Apply suggestions from review - components.md

* Aply suggestions from review - report-items.md

* Apply suggestions from review - report-items.md

* Apply suggestions from review - maps.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Yordan <60105689+yordan-mitev@users.noreply.github.com>

user-guide/components/components.md, after:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Components - Overview
description: Explore the available report components offered by the Web Report Designer.
slug: web-report-designer-user-guide-components
tags: web, report, design, components, overview
published: True
position: 0
---

<style>
img[alt$="><"] {
  border: 1px solid lightgrey; 
}
table th:first-of-type {
	width: 50%;
}
table th:nth-of-type(2) {
	width:50%;
}
}
</style>

# Components Overview

Each report is built using [report items]({%slug user-guide/components/report-items%}), which are available in the Components tab. This tab organizes the items into categories based on their type and functionality, making it easy to find what you need for your report design. It supports two layout modes—grid and list, with the list view selected by default.

## How to Use Components

You can add components to your report in two ways:

* Drag and drop&mdash;Click the report's design surface and drag a component from the Components tab onto the report.
* Click to add&mdash;Click the desired location in your report, then click the component in the Components tab.

You can edit already added components by clicking the respective report item on the design surface of the report. To edit multiple items simultaneously, select them by holding the `Ctrl` or `Cmd` key. Once the item is selected, you can edit its properties in the pane on the right.

![Components tray in List Mode ><](images/wrd-components-tray-design-mode.png)
 
|Group (Category)|Report Items|
|----|----|
|[Report Items]({%slug user-guide/components/report-items%}) - The main building blocks used in the report depending on the data that will be displayed, e.g. a TextBox item for static or data-bound text, a PictureBox for displaying images, a Barcode for showing a barcode in a label report, etc.|<ul><li>TextBox</li><li>HtmlTextBox</li><li>PictureBox</li><li>CheckBox</li><li>Barcode</li><li>Shape</li><li>Panel</li><li>Radial Gauge Wizard</li><li>Linear Gauge Wizard</li></ul>|
|[Tables]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-tables%}) - The Table report item is a generalized layout report item that displays report data in cells that are organized into rows and columns.|<ul><li>List</li><li>Table</li><li>Crosstab</li><li>Table Wizard</li><li>Crosstab Wizard</li></ul>|
|Reports - The [SubReport]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-subreport%}) item enables you to display reports within reports and serves as a container, similar to the report sections, growing in size depending on its children.|<ul><li>SubReport</li></ul>|
|[Maps]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-maps%}) - The Map report item is a Telerik Reporting item which enables you to visualize aggregate business data in a geographical manner.|<ul><li>Map types: Point, Pie, Column</li><li>Choropleth</li></ul>|
|[Charts]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-charts%}) - The Graph report item is a Telerik Reporting item that allows you to generate different Chart types (objects) and visually present large volumes of aggregated information.|<ul><li>Bar Chart</li><li>Line Chart</li><li>Area Chart</li><li>Column Chart</li><li>Pie Chart</li><li>Doughnut Chart</li></ul>|
|[Report Sections]({%slug user-guide/components/report-sections%}) - A Telerik report consists of different sections that may contain report items. Each report section represents a specific area on the report page and defines the report items you can add.|<ul><li>Page Header</li><li>Page Footer</li><li>Report Header</li><li>Report Footer</li><li>Table of Contents</li></ul>|
|[Data Sources]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-data-sources%}) - Data Source components are used to connect data items to different types of data without writing any code.|<ul><li>SQL Data Source</li><li>CSV Data Source</li><li>Web Service Data Source</li><li>GraphQL Data Source</li><li>JSON Data Source</li><li>Object Data Source</li></ul>|

## Next Steps

* [Learn about Report Items]({%slug user-guide/components/report-items%})
* [Configure Data Sources]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-data-sources%})
* [Explore Report Sections]({%slug user-guide/components/report-sections%})
* [Create Your First Report]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-getting-started%})

## See Also

* [Report Structure]({%slug user-guide/report-structure%})
* [Working with Tables]({%slug web-report-designer-user-guide-components-tables%})
