ide-integration/integration-with-visual-studio.md, before:

---
title: Integration with Visual Studio
page_title: Using Visual Studio Extensions
description: Learn how to facilitate the development process for Telerik Reporting with the Visual Studio Extensions.
slug: reporting-integration-with-visual-studio
tags: integration,visual,studio,reporting,configure,wizard, extension
published: True
position: 0
reportingArea: General
---
# Visual Studio Extensions

The **Visual Studio Extensions** for the **Telerik Reporting** product aim to help developers when creating applications with Telerik Reporting. They can be accessed through the *Extensions | Telerik | Reporting* menu.

Make sure that the extension is installed first:

![Telerik Reporting Tools](images/telerik-reporting-tools.png)  

The extensions handle the following major points in the development process:

## Project Templates

After [installing Telerik Reporting]({%slug telerikreporting/installation%}), the extensions add several project templates to the **New Project** dialog of Visual Studio:

![New Project Templates](images/new-project-templates.png)   

If you select the last option **Telerik Reporting REST service**, the **REST Service Project Configuration** wizard is launched:

![REST Service Project Configuration Wizard](images/rest-service-project-configuration-wizard.png)  

A menu pops up that allows you to configure the REST Service properties:


[Hosting the Telerik Reporting REST Service in an ASP.NET Application]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/asp.net-web-api-implementation/how-to-add-telerik-reporting-rest-web-api-to-web-application%})

[Hosting the Telerik Reporting REST Service in ASP.NET Core in .NET {{site.mindotnetversion}}+ with Minimal API]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/asp.net-core-web-api-implementation/how-to-host-reports-service-in-asp.net-core-in-.net-6-with-minimal-api%})

## Item Templates

With the [installation of Telerik Reporting]({%slug telerikreporting/installation%}), several [report item]({%slug report_item%}) templates are added to the **New Item** dialog of Visual Studio:

![Add New Item](images/add-new-item.png)  

![New Item Templates](images/new-item-templates.png)   

If you select the last option, the New Report Wizard is launched:

![Select Report Wizard](images/report-wizard.png)    

Depending on the user's selection, the respective wizard is displayed, e.g. [Band Report Wizard]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/tools/report-wizards/band-report-wizard/overview%}).

## Upgrade Wizard

The [Upgrade Wizard]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/visual-studio-report-designer/upgrade-wizard%}) allows you to upgrade/downgrade a .NET Framework project to any installed Telerik Reporting version. It can be started by using the *Extensions > Telerik > Reporting > Upgrade Wizard* menu item:

![Start Upgrade Wizard](images/start-upgrade-wizard.png) 

After [installing Telerik Reporting]({%slug telerikreporting/installation%}) you can benefit the [Visual Studio Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/visual-studio-report-designer/overview%}) in a .NET Framework project which facilitates the creation of new reports and importing reports from other formats in the Designer.

During the [installation process]({%slug telerikreporting/installation%}) of Telerik Reporting on your machine, the Telerik assemblies are added to Global Assemby Cache (GAC) as well. This enables the respective items in the Visual Studio Toolbox for a .NET Framework project as well:

![Toolbox Items](images/toolbox-items.png) 

In case of any problems related to the Visual Studio Telerik Reporting Toolbox items, please refer to [Troubleshooting]({%slug telerik-reporting-toolbox-items-are-missing%}) article offering several tips.

## See Also

- [Upgrade Wizard]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/visual-studio-report-designer/upgrade-wizard%})
- [Troubleshooting Visual Studio Report Designer Problems]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/visual-studio-report-designer/visual-studio-problems%})
- [Installation Approaches for Telerik Reporting]({%slug telerikreporting/installation%})

Commit message:

Update integration-with-visual-studio.md (#1961)
* Update integration-with-visual-studio.md

* Add files via upload

* Update ide-integration/integration-with-visual-studio.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Petar Todorov <109748926+petar-i-todorov@users.noreply.github.com>

ide-integration/integration-with-visual-studio.md, after:

---
title: Integration with Visual Studio
page_title: Using Visual Studio Extensions
description: Learn how to facilitate the development process for Telerik Reporting with the Visual Studio Extensions.
slug: reporting-integration-with-visual-studio
tags: integration,visual,studio,reporting,configure,wizard, extension
published: True
position: 0
reportingArea: General
---
# Visual Studio Extensions

The **Visual Studio Extensions** for the **Telerik Reporting** product aim to help developers when creating applications with Telerik Reporting. They can be accessed through the *Extensions | Telerik | Reporting* menu.

Make sure that the extension is installed first:

![Telerik Reporting Tools](images/telerik-reporting-tools.png)  

The extensions handle the following major points in the development process:

## Setting up the Telerik Reporting MCP Server

Starting with the [Progress® Telerik® Reporting 2025 Q4 (19.3.25.1111)](https://www.telerik.com/support/whats-new/reporting/release-history/progress-telerik-reporting-2025-q4-19-3-25-1111) release, the [Telerik Reporting MCP Server]({%slug ai-mcp-server-as-a-nuget%}) can now be set up using the [Telerik Reporting Visual Studio Extension]({%slug reporting-integration-with-visual-studio%}).

![An image showcasing the available MCP-related functionalities of the Telerik Reporting VS extension](images/vs-reporting-mcp-extension.png)

- The `Configure MCP Server Globally` option creates (or updates if existing) the global `%USERPROFILE%\.mcp.json` file and adds  the Telerik server entry.
- The `Configure MCP Server for Solution` option is visible only if you have a project opened in Visual Studio. The option creates (or updates if existing) the  `.mcp.json` file in the solution directory.
- The `Add/Update GitHub Copilot Instructions` option is visible only if you have a project opened in Visual Studio. The option creates (*or updates if existing*) a [copilot-instructions.md](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/how-tos/configure-custom-instructions/add-repository-instructions?tool=visualstudio) file in the `.github\` folder of the solution (`\SolutionDir\.github\copilot-instructions.md`), which includes extra context that is automatically used with the prompt given to the Copilot chat in Visual Studio.

## Project Templates

After [installing Telerik Reporting]({%slug telerikreporting/installation%}), the extensions add several project templates to the **New Project** dialog of Visual Studio:

![New Project Templates](images/new-project-templates.png)   

If you select the last option **Telerik Reporting REST service**, the **REST Service Project Configuration** wizard is launched:

![REST Service Project Configuration Wizard](images/rest-service-project-configuration-wizard.png)  

A menu pops up that allows you to configure the REST Service properties:


[Hosting the Telerik Reporting REST Service in an ASP.NET Application]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/asp.net-web-api-implementation/how-to-add-telerik-reporting-rest-web-api-to-web-application%})

[Hosting the Telerik Reporting REST Service in ASP.NET Core in .NET {{site.mindotnetversion}}+ with Minimal API]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/asp.net-core-web-api-implementation/how-to-host-reports-service-in-asp.net-core-in-.net-6-with-minimal-api%})

## Item Templates

With the [installation of Telerik Reporting]({%slug telerikreporting/installation%}), several [report item]({%slug report_item%}) templates are added to the **New Item** dialog of Visual Studio:

![Add New Item](images/add-new-item.png)  

![New Item Templates](images/new-item-templates.png)   

If you select the last option, the New Report Wizard is launched:

![Select Report Wizard](images/report-wizard.png)    

Depending on the user's selection, the respective wizard is displayed, e.g. [Band Report Wizard]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/tools/report-wizards/band-report-wizard/overview%}).

## Upgrade Wizard

The [Upgrade Wizard]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/visual-studio-report-designer/upgrade-wizard%}) allows you to upgrade/downgrade a .NET Framework project to any installed Telerik Reporting version. It can be started by using the *Extensions > Telerik > Reporting > Upgrade Wizard* menu item:

![Start Upgrade Wizard](images/start-upgrade-wizard.png) 

After [installing Telerik Reporting]({%slug telerikreporting/installation%}) you can benefit the [Visual Studio Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/visual-studio-report-designer/overview%}) in a .NET Framework project which facilitates the creation of new reports and importing reports from other formats in the Designer.

During the [installation process]({%slug telerikreporting/installation%}) of Telerik Reporting on your machine, the Telerik assemblies are added to Global Assemby Cache (GAC) as well. This enables the respective items in the Visual Studio Toolbox for a .NET Framework project as well:

![Toolbox Items](images/toolbox-items.png) 

In case of any problems related to the Visual Studio Telerik Reporting Toolbox items, please refer to [Troubleshooting]({%slug telerik-reporting-toolbox-items-are-missing%}) article offering several tips.

## See Also

- [Upgrade Wizard]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/visual-studio-report-designer/upgrade-wizard%})
- [Troubleshooting Visual Studio Report Designer Problems]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/visual-studio-report-designer/visual-studio-problems%})
- [Installation Approaches for Telerik Reporting]({%slug telerikreporting/installation%})
