upgrade/2024/2024-q4-18-3-24-1218.md, before:

---
title: 2024 Q4 (18.3.24.1218)
page_title: 2024 Q4 18.3.24.1218 Release Overview
description: "See the changes introduced with Telerik Reporting 2024 Q4 (18.3.24.1218) that should be considered before upgrading, and the 3rd party products & packages this version depends on."
slug: telerikreporting/upgrade/2024/2024-q4-18-3-24-1218
tags: q4,2024
published: True
position: 7
---

# 2024 Q4 (18.3.24.1218) Changes and Dependencies

This article explains the manual changes required when upgrading to Telerik Reporting 2024 Q4 (18.3.24.1218).

## Changes

### WinUI Report Viewer

The viewer is built with Telerik UI for WinUI __2.11.1__.

### WPF Report Viewer for .NET Framework

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2024.4.1111.462__. If you are using a newer version, consider adding binding redirects. For more information see: [How to Add report viewer to a WPF .NET Framework project]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/wpf-application/how-to-add-report-viewer-to-a-wpf-.net-framework-project%}).

### WPF Report Viewer for .NET 6

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2024.4.1111.60__ and targets .NET 6.

### WPF Report Viewer for .NET 8

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2024.4.1111.80__ and targets .NET 8.

### Standalone Report Designer targeting .NET Framework 4.6.2

TRDX, TRDP, and TRBP report definitions created by the Standalone Report Designer now use schema version __http://schemas.telerik.com/reporting/2024/4.0__.

### Standalone Report Designer for .NET targeting .NET 8.0

TRDX, TRDP, and TRBP report definitions created by the Standalone Report Designer for .NET now use schema version __http://schemas.telerik.com/reporting/2024/4.0__.

## Dependencies

### Web Report Designer Dependencies

The [Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%}) depends on the following libraries:

* Telerik Kendo UI (__2022.3.913__ or later)
* jQuery (__1.9.1__ or later)
* Browser's native support for Promise objects. When the browser does not support Promise, the viewer will not try to automatically load it. It's the responsibility of the developer to load Promise functionality from a trusted source in the application.

### HTML5 Report Viewer Dependencies

The [HTML5 Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/html5-report-viewer/overview%}) depends on the following libraries:

* Telerik Kendo UI (__2022.3.913__ or later)
* jQuery (__1.9.1__ or later)
* Browser's native support for Promise objects. When the browser does not support Promise, the viewer will not try to automatically load it. It's the responsibility of the developer to load Promise functionality from a trusted source in the application.

### Angular Report Viewer Dependencies

The [Angular Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/angular-report-viewer-overview%}) depends on the following:

* Angular (__15.0.0__ or later)
* jQuery (__^1.10.0 || ^2.2.0 || ^3.7.0"__)

### Native Angular Report Viewer

* Angular (__15.0.0__ or later)
* Kendo UI for Angular __16.1.*__.

### React Report Viewer Dependencies

The [React Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/react-report-viewer/react-report-viewer-overview%}) depends on the following:

* React (__16.8.6__ or later)
* React-DOM (__16.8.6__ or later)
* jQuery (__3.2.1__)

### Native Blazor Report Viewer

The viewer is built with Telerik UI for Blazor __6.2.0__.

### HttpClient Dependencies

Connecting a desktop report viewer (WinForms or WPF) to a REST service or Report Server instance requires the following NuGet packages:

* Newtonsoft.Json (__13.0.1__ or later for .NET Framework and .NET Core projects)
* Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.Client (__6.0.0__ or later for .NET Framework projects, __5.2.7__ or later for .NET Core projects)

### WebServiceDataSource Component Dependencies

The [WebServiceDataSource]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/webservicedatasource-component/overview%}) requires the following NuGet packages:

* Microsoft.Net.Http (__2.2.29__ or later)
* Newtonsoft.Json (__13.0.1.0__ or later)

### ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service Dependencies

The [ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-api-reference/overview%}) requires the following NuGet packages:

* Microsoft ASP.NET Web API (__5.3.0__ or later)
* Newtonsoft.Json (__13.0.1.0__ or later)

### ServiceStack Report Service Dependencies

The [ServiceStack Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/servicestack-implementation/how-to-add-telerik-reporting-rest-servicestack-to-web-application%}) uses ServiceStack (__3.9.70.0__):

### CubeDataSource Dependencies

If you are using [CubeDataSource]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/cubedatasource-component/overview%}), the version of your Microsoft.AnalysisServices.AdomdClient should be __10.0.0.0__ or later.

### Database Cache Provider Dependencies

If you are using [Database Cache Provider]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/cache-management/other-reportviewer-controls/configuring-the-database-cache-provider%}), the version of your Telerik Data Access ORM should be __2015.1.225.1__ or later.

### Internal Cache

The internal cache uses SQLite version __3.33.0__ for .NET Framework projects and __3.38.0__ for .NET Core and .NET 6+ projects.

### REST Service Redis Storage Dependencies

The [REST Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/overview%}) with [Redis Storage implementation]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-service-storage/how-to-use-redis-storage%}) depends on one of the following:

* StackExchange.Redis version 2.8.16 or greater.

Commit message:

docs: add info for RS.NET using 3.0 XML schema (#1568)
- added note for RS.NET which still uses 3.0 XML schema
refs: no issue.

upgrade/2024/2024-q4-18-3-24-1218.md, after:

---
title: 2024 Q4 (18.3.24.1218)
page_title: 2024 Q4 18.3.24.1218 Release Overview
description: "See the changes introduced with Telerik Reporting 2024 Q4 (18.3.24.1218) that should be considered before upgrading, and the 3rd party products & packages this version depends on."
slug: telerikreporting/upgrade/2024/2024-q4-18-3-24-1218
tags: q4,2024
published: True
position: 7
---

# 2024 Q4 (18.3.24.1218) Changes and Dependencies

This article explains the manual changes required when upgrading to Telerik Reporting 2024 Q4 (18.3.24.1218).

## Changes

### WinUI Report Viewer

The viewer is built with Telerik UI for WinUI __2.11.1__.

### WPF Report Viewer for .NET Framework

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2024.4.1111.462__. If you are using a newer version, consider adding binding redirects. For more information see: [How to Add report viewer to a WPF .NET Framework project]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/wpf-application/how-to-add-report-viewer-to-a-wpf-.net-framework-project%}).

### WPF Report Viewer for .NET 6

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2024.4.1111.60__ and targets .NET 6.

### WPF Report Viewer for .NET 8

The viewer is built with Telerik UI Controls for WPF __2024.4.1111.80__ and targets .NET 8.

### Standalone Report Designer targeting .NET Framework 4.6.2

TRDX, TRDP, and TRBP report definitions created by the Standalone Report Designer now use schema version __http://schemas.telerik.com/reporting/2024/4.0__.

### Standalone Report Designer for .NET targeting .NET 8.0

TRDX, TRDP, and TRBP report definitions created by the Standalone Report Designer for .NET now use schema version __http://schemas.telerik.com/reporting/2024/4.0__.

### Report Server for .NET

Report Server for .NET uses schema version __http://schemas.telerik.com/reporting/2024/3.0__.

## Dependencies

### Web Report Designer Dependencies

The [Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%}) depends on the following libraries:

* Telerik Kendo UI (__2022.3.913__ or later)
* jQuery (__1.9.1__ or later)
* Browser's native support for Promise objects. When the browser does not support Promise, the viewer will not try to automatically load it. It's the responsibility of the developer to load Promise functionality from a trusted source in the application.

### HTML5 Report Viewer Dependencies

The [HTML5 Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/html5-report-viewer/overview%}) depends on the following libraries:

* Telerik Kendo UI (__2022.3.913__ or later)
* jQuery (__1.9.1__ or later)
* Browser's native support for Promise objects. When the browser does not support Promise, the viewer will not try to automatically load it. It's the responsibility of the developer to load Promise functionality from a trusted source in the application.

### Angular Report Viewer Dependencies

The [Angular Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/angular-report-viewer/angular-report-viewer-overview%}) depends on the following:

* Angular (__15.0.0__ or later)
* jQuery (__^1.10.0 || ^2.2.0 || ^3.7.0"__)

### Native Angular Report Viewer

* Angular (__15.0.0__ or later)
* Kendo UI for Angular __16.1.*__.

### React Report Viewer Dependencies

The [React Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/react-report-viewer/react-report-viewer-overview%}) depends on the following:

* React (__16.8.6__ or later)
* React-DOM (__16.8.6__ or later)
* jQuery (__3.2.1__)

### Native Blazor Report Viewer

The viewer is built with Telerik UI for Blazor __6.2.0__.

### HttpClient Dependencies

Connecting a desktop report viewer (WinForms or WPF) to a REST service or Report Server instance requires the following NuGet packages:

* Newtonsoft.Json (__13.0.1__ or later for .NET Framework and .NET Core projects)
* Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.Client (__6.0.0__ or later for .NET Framework projects, __5.2.7__ or later for .NET Core projects)

### WebServiceDataSource Component Dependencies

The [WebServiceDataSource]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/webservicedatasource-component/overview%}) requires the following NuGet packages:

* Microsoft.Net.Http (__2.2.29__ or later)
* Newtonsoft.Json (__13.0.1.0__ or later)

### ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service Dependencies

The [ASP.NET WebAPI REST Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-api-reference/overview%}) requires the following NuGet packages:

* Microsoft ASP.NET Web API (__5.3.0__ or later)
* Newtonsoft.Json (__13.0.1.0__ or later)

### ServiceStack Report Service Dependencies

The [ServiceStack Report Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/servicestack-implementation/how-to-add-telerik-reporting-rest-servicestack-to-web-application%}) uses ServiceStack (__3.9.70.0__):

### CubeDataSource Dependencies

If you are using [CubeDataSource]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/cubedatasource-component/overview%}), the version of your Microsoft.AnalysisServices.AdomdClient should be __10.0.0.0__ or later.

### Database Cache Provider Dependencies

If you are using [Database Cache Provider]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/export-and-configure/cache-management/other-reportviewer-controls/configuring-the-database-cache-provider%}), the version of your Telerik Data Access ORM should be __2015.1.225.1__ or later.

### Internal Cache

The internal cache uses SQLite version __3.33.0__ for .NET Framework projects and __3.38.0__ for .NET Core and .NET 6+ projects.

### REST Service Redis Storage Dependencies

The [REST Service]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/overview%}) with [Redis Storage implementation]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/rest-service-storage/how-to-use-redis-storage%}) depends on one of the following:

* StackExchange.Redis version 2.8.16 or greater.
